Crocker vs. IESG 4-5 April 1995 Source:
ftp://ftp.ietf.org/ietf-online-proceedings/95apr/area.and.wg.reports/gen/iab/iab-minutes-95apr.txt
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

IAB Open Meeting

Reported by Abel Weinrib/Intel

An on-line copy of these and other IAB minutes are available from
ftp.isi.edu:pub/IAB.


First Session -- 4 April

The following IAB members were present:


     Brian Carpenter
     Steve Crocker
     Robert Elz
     Elise Gerich
     Phill Gross
     Christian Huitema
     Paul Mockapetris
     Jon Postel
     Yakov Rekhter
     John Romkey
     Dave Sincoskie
     Abel Weinrib


This meeting was devoted to an open investigation into Dave Crocker's
appeal of activities, or lack of activities, by the IESG in relation to
the work of the ONCRPC Working Group of the IETF. At the start,
Christian Huitema described the scope of the inquiry -- in particular,
that the technical merits of ONC/RPC or other technologies is not being
addressed here.  He then described the format, which included 10-minute
statements from the involved parties who had been invited to submit a
written statement in advance followed by questions from IAB members.
After all of the statements, comments were taken from the floor, limited
to two minutes and without repeat speakers.  Christian also announced
that the IAB would present its finding at the open IAB meeting scheduled
for 5 April.

Dave Crocker, the initiator of the appeal, went first.  See his slides
included with these minutes.  He closed with three recommendations:


  1. Open accountability of the IESG, including having the IESG held to
     the same reporting and tracking discipline as working groups and
     ready availability of the minutes of IESG meetings.

  2. Procedure and rule problems should be addressed by allowing the
     IETF community to grant exceptions by consensus.

  3. Policy change:  the IESG should do more open consultation with the
     IETF community.


Questions from the IAB:
Robert Elz:  How should the IESG consult the IETF, when should it have
happened in this case, and what effect would it have had on RFC 1602?
Answer:  When process hit a brick wall, the IESG should have come to the
community via e-mail or an open meeting at IETF. The community should
have fixed RFC 1602 on the fly -- it was a broken specification.

Bob Hinden, who was employed by Sun till January of 1995 and was the
negotiator on Sun's side until then, spoke next.  See his slides.  Bob
suggested that we need to fix the specification (RFC 1602) regarding
Intellectual Property procedures.  He also asked where was the relevant
area director during the negotiations and why didn't ISOC provide
liability insurance in a timely fashion?

Questions from the IAB:
Robert Elz:  What might the IESG have done to move this along?  Answer:
The problem was a lack of ownership on the IESG side and too much
handing around of the problem.  Also, whoever is doing the negotiation
really needs to also have the signing authority.

Christian Huitema:  Should Sun simply have ``abandoned'' it via a public
statement?  Answer:  Perhaps; Sun has been giving this technology away
for a long time.

Steve Crocker:  It is open ended as to why there needs to be a signed
agreement.  What did Sun need the agreement for?  Answer:  To meet
procedures of RFC 1602, and also to transfer rights to the trademarks.

Next, Steve Nahm from Sun who took over the negotiations from Bob Hinden
was invited to speak.  He declined the opportunity to present a formal
talk, and reported that the agreement is likely to be signed this week.

Question from the IAB:
Christian Huitema:  Is Sun trying to maintain Intellectual Property
Rights (IPR)? Answer:  Sun retains the IPR but licenses to ISOC the
exclusive right to make it an Internet standard, to evolve it.  Sun will
license the technology for free once it gets to Proposed Standard
status.

Dave Sincoskie:  Would Sun have been happy to send a letter regarding
IPR, rather than negotiating a contract with ISOC? Answer:  Sun would
not like to totally give away the technology; it would prefer to license
it.

Dave Sincoskie:  Would there have been a way to do it without anyone
from ISOC signing anything, but instead simply sending a letter to the
standards body?  Answer:  Sun was following RFC 1602, but would
definitely have looked at some other way of doing it.

Steve Crocker:  The essence is where has the time gone.  How much time
has been consumed by Sun, early on and more recently?  Answer:  The time
gap between original suggestion and working group formation was Sun's
and the Area Director's problem.  The working group first met at the
March 1994 IETF and was done with their work in May 1994.  Since then,
the time has been spent in trying to figure out what process to go
through to complete it.

Raj Srinivisian, who works for SunSoft and was chair of the ONCRPC
Working Group declined to present a formal statement.  He commented that
the ``problem word'' in the IPR section of RFC 1602 is ``warrant.''

Question from the IAB:
Brian Carpenter:  The question has been raised whether two competing
technologies can both be IETF standards -- what does Raj think about
this?  Answer:  There is a place for competing standards.  His hope is
that there will be a boilerplate contract that can make the process
fast.

Vint Cerf, ISOC President, was not present.  His prepared statement was
read aloud.

The final presenter was Paul Mockapetris, IESG chair since March 1994.
He observed that each legal iteration takes about three months, and
outlined the time line for the ONCRPC effort.  See his slides.  He also
observed that everyone is one ``rule exception'' away from happiness,
but the question is who decides.

Question from the IAB:
Christian Huitema:  Do you want to be forced to abide by RFC 1602?  Does
RFC 1602 document rules, guidelines or history?  Answer:  We need to
make a template agreement that will be acceptable to both sides in the
future.  The final Sun agreement might provide a model for this.  We
also need ways to deal with patent owners.  Finally, we need someone
chartered to do negotiations based on these.

Elise Gerich:  Do we need some sort of documents other than
Informational RFCs to describe binding rules?  Answer:  Too much corner
cutting was a problem.

Dave Sincoskie:  Would a unilateral statement be enough?  Answer:  Yes,
as long as the working group can use its judgment and we have a form
that sets precedent.

Christian Huitema:  Was the existence of competing technologies slowing
things down?  Answer:  No.  In fact, Paul was involved in no technical
aspects of this matter.

There followed a series of statements from the floor:

Bill Noichian, editor of the original Informational RFCs about Sun RPC:
At that time, Sun pretty much left it on the street corner.  We need Sun
RPC on the standards track so can base other work on it.

William Simpson listed the conclusions he would like to see:


   o The IESG did not know when it was not making forward progress -- it
     should have reported this to the community.

   o The IESG is not getting the support, including legal advice, from
     the Secretariat that it needs to be a decision making body.

   o Bilateral agreements are not what we want.  We strongly prefer
     technologies that do not have IPR constraints, so the owners should
     unilaterally release the IPR rights before it becomes a Standard.


Stev Knowles:
The IESG made a bad decision when it decided it wanted to be a standards
body, requiring things like insurance, lawyers, etc., -- and requiring
rules.  The problem is that RFC 1602 was known to be broken a year ago,
but no one stepped up to fix it.

John Stewart:
It is a bad model for the IETF to own anything, and for ISOC to be a
holding company for this.  We need a clear definition of the rules.

John Tavs, addressing Mobile IP and patent issues:
``Fair and nondiscriminatory'' is difficult to describe.  Cookie cutter
agreements are not going to be sufficient because different technologies
have different values and every case is different.


Second Session -- 5 April

   o Review of this IAB's accomplishments.  (See slides)

   o Reviving the IRTF. (See slides)

   o Announce signing of ISO/SC6/JTC1 liaison agreement.
     The liaison agreement has been signed.

   o Findings on ONC inquiry.
     The following statement was read:


     The IAB has been asked to review and respond on the timeliness
     of the procedures followed for forwarding RPC/XDR to the
     standards track.

     The IAB invited representatives of the IESG, SUN, and ISOC to
     submit statements documenting their perception of what
     transpired.  Then, during an open session at the IETF, the
     representatives were invited to present their positions to the
     IAB and the IETF membership.  In addition, the IETF membership
     was invited to address this topic after the representatives had
     presented their positions.

     After reading the submissions and listening to the
     presentations and comments made at the open meeting, it seems
     like the fundamental question being asked is:

     (To quote D. Crocker)

     ``Does the process represent reasonable prudence or
     institutional paralysis?''

     The conclusion of the IAB, and apparently of all the speakers,
     is that the defined process led to institutional paralysis.
     The text of RFC 1602, which defines how the IETF/IESG should
     operate, has a procedure for adopting external technologies
     which is unimplementable.

     The process defined in RFC 1602 has raised deeper issues which
     warrant consideration.  RFC 1602 is intended to specify the
     process to be followed by the IETF and related bodies.  On the
     other hand, it was assumed that the procedures might require
     modification over time.

     The working group process is the appropriate place to propose
     modifications to the procedures, with revisions appearing as
     Internet-Drafts, undergoing the Last Call procedure, and
     finally being adopted.  This is necessarily a slow process and
     as such may result in an unnecessary obstruction of IETF
     business.

     There must be a mechanism by which the IESG can obtain
     dispensation from the rules stated in RFC 1602 (or the next
     version) when documented procedures introduce unnecessary
     obstruction of business.

     The IAB supports the recommendations of many of the speakers
     who proposed revisions to RFC 1602 which would:

      a) designate an owner of the intellectual property rights
         process
      b) specify a procedure to negotiate variations

     The IAB also supports the recommendation to the POISED group,
     that the working group review other standards' bodies'
     procedures prior to revising those of the IETF.

     Since the specific reason for this appeal appears to be
     resolved, it is unnecessary for the IAB to request any action
     by the IESG or any other bodies.


