Daniel J. Bernstein -- 26 Jun 1992 -- IETF
------------------------------------------


Informal notice of two IESG decisions



This message has 25 sections, each quite short but together a lot to
take in. Sorry for the length. Why so much? Because I'm exposing a
year-long pattern of corruption within the IESG. I now have a large
collection of electronic, verbal, and written evidence that the IESG has
blatantly violated several requirements in RFC 1310. These abuses are
documented below. (Skip to pattern ^25 for the quick summary.)


1. Reason for the informal notice

RFC 1310 states that anyone can submit a standardization proposal to the
IETF Chairman or an appropriate IETF Area Director, who in turn lets the
IESG review the proposal. RFC 1310 outlines a few procedures for dealing
with tricky proposals---for example, commissioning a special review
committee, or creating a working group for ``evaluation and refinement''
of the protocol spec. It then says: ``The IESG shall determine whether a
specification satisfies the applicable criteria for the recommended
action (see Sections 3.2 and 3.3 of this document) and shall communicate
its findings to the IETF to permit a final review by the general Internet
community.'' RFC 1310 goes on to say that the notification is by email
to the IETF list.


2. The informal notice

On 15 July 1991 I submitted a protocol specification to Steve Crocker,
requesting that it be published as a Proposed Standard RFC. At the time
the protocol in question, which came into existence in early 1990 and
was derived from a much older protocol, did not have a distinguishing
name; I have recently begun calling the protocol ``TAP.'' (This, like
``TELNET,'' is a capitalized name, not an abbreviation for some official
name.) Anyway, Crocker is the IETF Security Area Director. Phill Gross,
the IETF Chairman, informed me in May that Crocker had rejected my
request in March.

On 18 April 1992 I requested of Gross that a newer, pruned-down TAP
specification be published as a Proposed Standard RFC (or at least that
a working group be created to discuss it). Gross informed me in mid-May
that the IESG had just rejected my request, primarily because TAP has
the same function as a still-not-yet-defined protocol named Ident,
currently stuck in the Ident WG. (It is worth noting that the Ident WG
chairman, Mike StJohns, has refused to allow discussion of TAP on the
Ident list, although he does not deny that TAP is within the Ident
charter.)


3. Comments about the notice

According to RFC 1310, the IESG was required to notify the IETF mailing
list of the two decisions listed above, to permit community review. It
appears that the IESG failed to do so, hence violating both the letter
and the spirit of this rule. If in fact the IESG sent out timely
notifications which I missed, I'm sorry; I asked the IESG recently
whether such notifications had been sent, and I received no response.

The remainder of this message gives you further information about the
protocol in question and its history within the IAB. Everything I say
here (except, in some cases, my comments about what I was thinking at a
given time) can be verified from the transcripts of my dealings with the
IAB, which I plan to publish in SIGCOMM CCR, or from other objectively
verifiable sources. You will be forced to wonder, as you read through
these progressively more and more damning pieces of evidence, whether
the IESG is attempting to take control of the IAB standards series away
from the community. Why else would it keep its decisions secret, and
violate RFC 1310 in the many other ways documented below?


4. Chronology I: early history

TAP came into existence in February 1990. I took the dead protocol
documented in RFC 931 and implemented a variant of it. I distributed the
result in my ``auth'' package, which never really caught on. A year
later I distributed ``authd,'' a new TAP implementation which did catch
on because of various technical features. authd serves TCP port 113; in
effect it announces ``username shmoe connected from this host's TCP port
12345 to host H's TCP port 7654'' to anyone on host H who asks about
those port numbers. (It can be used for things other than usernames,
though, just as finger can be used to transmit weather information.)

Three client TAP implementations (for BSD talk, NNTP, and SMTP) were
distributed in early 1991. I began to worry about ways to guarantee
future interoperability. In June I documented the TAP protocol, along
with the existing applications and some suggested applications, in RFC
format. I also commented extensively on the exact security added by TAP.
On 15 July, as noted above, I submitted the document to Crocker for
publication as a Proposed Standard RFC.


5. Chronology II: Delay Period 1 (15 July to 14 September)

After my submission I was told nothing for two months. I sent Crocker a
list of some sites running TAP. Then Crocker wrote back: ``Naw, two
months is not unreasonable. The time has been used for coordination...
There is moderate agreement that this should indeed go on the standards
track. However, the wording about the relationship to security needs to
be changed. It's one thing for hosts to supply information about the
user associated with a particular connection, but it's another matter to
assert that this information supplied is particularly trustworthy or
strongly related to security. You get first crack at fixing up the
document. If you need clarification of the issues, we can set up a
dialog.'' That was 14 September.

Nowhere in the security section did I assert that the information
supplied was in particularly trustworthy or strongly related to
security, and I did not understand what changes Crocker wanted me to
make, or who the ``we'' was. I told Crocker so on 15 September. I asked
exactly what wording he considered inaccurate, misleading, or
incomplete, and said: ``Since I don't understand which statements you're
objecting to, I guess I need clarification. Dialogue with whom?'' (As I
learned later, ``we'' meant some subset of the SAAG group.)


6. Chronology III: Delay Period 2 (15 September to 20 November)

Crocker did not respond to my request for further information, and
didn't come through on ``we can set up a dialog.'' I sent messages to
him on 3 October and 19 October attempting to elicit a response. He
didn't respond until 20 November, more than four months after my
submission. In those four months, the ball was in Crocker's court every
day except 14 September.

In the meantime the world continued to turn. Peter Eriksson wrote a new
implementation; unfortunately there was an interoperability problem. I
heard about the problem from Simon Leunen. By 4 November, Peter had
fixed the problem and read through the TAP specification. The
specification would not have permitted the problem if it had been
available to Peter.  In mid-November I created the rfc931-users list
``for people who want to use RFC 931 to solve problems.'' The list
quickly swelled past 100 subscribers, and Peter's ``pauthd'' continued
to grow in popularity.


7. Chronology IV: technical discussion

On 20 November Crocker finally gave me some indication of what he (and
apparently some SAAG members) didn't like about the document. I
responded with a list of ten issues, on most of which we seemed to
agree. Crocker responded on 22 November: ``I think we're in basic
agreement, modulo detailed discussion over what words are in the RFC
regarding security and the name of the protocol.'' (He had mentioned
that the current name---``Authentication Server,'' just like RFC 931---
was, in the eyes of the SAAG, inappropriate; this was one of the issues
I listed.)

At the end of November I sent some initial messages to the rfc931-users
list. Discussion ensued on the security section of my document. This
discussion continued, in various threads on rfc931-users and the SAAG
list, through the beginning of January. During that time I produced
several revisions of my document in response to SAAG criticism.

On 2 January Jim Galvin of SAAG sent me a message, reminding me of the
name-change issue raised in late November. ``It is the opinion of those
SAAG members who have been carefully tracking this effort that the
protocol should be renamed as the "Identity Server" (or something
similar)... If you agree you will need to revise your document
accordingly, after which we will push it on to the "standards track" as
expeditiously as possible.''

I asked rfc931-users whether the name change would be okay, and how we'd
deal with the problems of changing the name of an established protocol.
The answers were satisfactory, so I agreed.

On 4 January I made a new draft available; it had the new name
``Identity Server'' and addressed various security concerns. There was
no further discussion. I waited for Galvin to live up to his statement
``we will push it on to the "standards track" as expeditiously as
possible.''


8. Chronology V: Delay Period 3 (4 January to 8 March)

There was no discussion after my 4 January draft. On 15 January, six
months after the submission, I sent Crocker, Galvin, Jeff Schiller, and
StJohns a message. I pointed out that I had addressed the issues raised.
I reminded them of Galvin's 2 January promise. Galvin immediately wrote
back and promised a response within a week.

On 22 January Galvin wrote back saying two things. ``First, the
reviewers have not reached consensus on how to respond to the review.
Until we do there is nothing that can be said at this time.'' Second, he
told me about the existence of Internet-Drafts and recommended that I
submit my document as an I-D. On 25 January I wrote back complaining
about the delay and the lack of feedback. But there was nothing I could
do: the ball was in ``the reviewers'' court and the reviewers weren't
telling me anything.

I wrote to Galvin on 6 February. ``You have stretched my patience beyond
its limits. Are there any remaining problems with my RFC 931 revision?
If so, then for the last month you've been concealing them from me. Is
my RFC 931 revision going to be published, NOW? If not, then you are
censoring a supposedly open document series. Is my RFC 931 revision
going to be published as a proposed standard protocol, to become a
recommended standard by December if there is no objection from the
community? If not, then the IETF is costing thousands of system
administrators many thousands of hours of time and effort tracking
system crackers. Is my RFC 931 revision going to be published as is,
with none of the insane editing that marred RFC 1143? If not, then the
IETF is violating copyright.''

I asked for a quick response. I quoted the section of RFC 1200 where the
IAB ``strongly recommends'' that people use its standards process ``to
maximize interoperability.'' I implied that this was a lie: ``When push
comes to shove, the IAB doesn't want to even begin standardizing a
protocol which isn't its own pet project---even if hundreds of sites
around the Internet are using that protocol.''

I hoped that if I reminded Galvin of the IAB's promises to the community
then he would wake up and start acting in accordance with those
promises. I received no response. Around this time I found Vint Cerf's
December draft of what is now RFC 1310. I was pleased to see that the
draft made quite a few statements about the IAB standards process which
were in line with how I thought the process should work.

So on 9 February I sent an informal complaint to Vint Cerf about SAAG's
handling of TAP. I emphasized how, according to his draft of RFC 1310,
TAP was in perfect shape to become a Proposed Standard. Cerf
acknowledged receipt of my message but didn't respond. I complained to
him again on 2 March. I didn't receive any other messages from the IAB
or its suborganizations in the meantime---except for a private e-mail
exchange with Steve Kent in mid-February which confirmed my beliefs
about why the SAAG was censoring TAP. (In the exchange Kent admitted
that his comments were out of date; he didn't raise any specific
objections to my document; and he didn't come through on any of the
IAB's promises. He did imply that he considers himself an ``important
individual'' [his words] in the standardization process.)

Summary of the three two-month delay periods: For a total of six months
out of eight, people acknowledged my messages, promised responses, even
admitted that the ball was in their court, but didn't tell me anything
and didn't live up to their explicit promises---let alone the promises
in RFC 1200 and RFC 1310. During this time the IAB accomplished nothing.


9. Chronology VI: post-Cerf summary

On 8 March Vint Cerf finally responded to my complaints. ``It would be a
loss if you gave up at this point since I had thought progress was being
made at last.'' (Huh? It had been two months since Galvin had promised
to move TAP along the standards track. Absolutely no progress was made,
and Galvin didn't come through.) ``The impression I have is that the
fundamental questions revolve around how to characterize the services of
the protocol proposed. In particular, the degree to which one could or
should trust the results from any particular host that responds.''
(Absolutely. No disagreement here.)

Although Cerf wasn't formally running the IAB at that point, it was
amazing how quickly things moved once he got involved. Days after Cerf
``thought progress was being made at last'' Mike StJohns sent out an
extensive revision of the TAP spec, claiming that his rewrite reflected
SAAG's concerns (which had been kept completely hidden since 4 January).
After this things got very complicated, and I won't try to give a
complete play-by-play account of what's happened between then and now.
The following sections have just a few highlights.


10. Historical summary: the pure TAP spec

On 12 March it struck me that there had been essentially no disagreement
on the technical aspects of TAP. So, I thought, why not split the
document into two pieces: a pure TAP protocol description, and a
discussion of security and applications?

The next day I distributed the pure (``wimpy'') TAP spec. I stated my
high hopes that the pure spec would be acceptable to SAAG---after all,
it didn't make any claims about security and didn't talk about any
applications. It just defined the protocol. The new security section
said essentially ``This document makes absolutely no guarantees about
security.''

Beyond minor wording changes and a couple of extra technical notes that
spec hasn't changed. Several people (including Vint Cerf) have stated
their comfort with the document. The only technical objection raised is
that the (ridiculously simple) grammar is expressed verbally rather than
with a BNF; I've stated that I'd be glad to include a BNF if someone
wants to do the work of writing one, but apparently nobody's seen a real
need to do this.

It is this spec which was the subject of my 18 April request to the
IESG. (You can get the most recent published revision as
draft-bernstein-tap-00.txt from any I-D directory.) As noted in
section 2, Gross informed me in mid-May that the IESG had just rejected
my request, primarily because TAP has the same function as Ident.


11. Historical summary: cutting me out of the process

As you will recall, there was my draft from 4 January, then StJohns's
11 March rewrite with a radically different security section, then my
13 March pure revision with the security section removed entirely.

On 16 March Steve Crocker sent me a message: ``You said in your note to
Vint that you want your latest revision to be considered an official
submission. I think we skipped a step. I saw Mike's draft and I saw
your response, but I didn't see any dialog indicating discussion and
reconciliation. It's not evident to me that your submission meets the
requirement for consensus.''

What a load of crap. First of all, except in the security section,
StJohns's draft was essentially the same as mine; and the whole point of
my rewrite was that we should split off the security section into a
separate document. So what exactly was there the lack of consensus on?
The only person who's refused to admit that splitting off the security
section is a good idea is Ted Ts'o, who also refuses to admit that TAP
has a constituency or that Kerberos is less than 100% secure. (Will the
sun rise tomorrow, Ts'o?) Given that StJohns's changes were in sections
that no longer appeared in the document, what was there to discuss?

Second, every accusation that I had ``skipped a step'' can be thrown
back at StJohns. To imitate Crocker: ``I saw my January draft and I
saw Mike's extensive rewrite, but I didn't see any dialog indicating
discussion and reconciliation.'' It is StJohns who didn't check his
rewrite with anybody, who didn't have any history of agreement on his
document. Why can IAB flunkies make any changes they want without
checking with the community, then accuse *me* of not seeking out
consensus?

To make a long story short, by 18 March Steve Crocker had announced that
Mike StJohns was now running ``the effort.'' He excused this exercise of
dictatorship---which he didn't even check with SAAG---by saying ``It has
become evident that these discussions are not converging.''

I leave it to you, my readers, to evaluate the truth of Crocker's
statement. The technical discussions which weren't converging were the
security discussions---and it wasn't my fault that, after January 4,
nobody in SAAG could find a single thing to complain about in my draft.
At this time the discussions still haven't converged; Mike StJohns has
adopted the policy of ignoring them entirely, on the grounds that I am
supposedly the only one disagreeing with SAAG. Other people have
explicitly stated the same disagreements but StJohns still has the same
policy.

Anyone involved in those first eight months of TAPgate knew that the
security section was the only thing holding TAP back. Nearly every
message dealing with technical aspects of TAP was on security issues.
My solution was to let the TAP protocol specification proceed by
admitting that we didn't know what to say about security. Crocker's
``solution'' was to cut me out of the process---and use StJohns's
security section, which certainly isn't anywhere near consensus.

On 18 April, immediately after my second formal request to the IESG
(actually, right after I denied Crocker's right to exercise his personal
authority and reject the request, since it was directed at Phill Gross),
Crocker removed me from the SAAG mailing list. I hadn't sent any
messages to the SAAG list in a while; outside the TAP efforts I had
contributed an idea (which I think was accepted) to a mail-checking
protocol and hadn't said much else on the list. Yet Crocker came up with
a lie and threw me off the list. (``Open processes depend on the good
will of the participants. There is a line between pursuit of honest
differences of opinion and determination to interfere with the work of
the group. In my opinion, your efforts are not constructive, and I have
removed you from the SAAG mailing list.'')

I requested to be put back on. I had thought that the SAAG was an open
list---an official IETF list, in fact. But Crocker refused. It turned
out that Galvin, who had added me to the list originally, works for
Crocker. What excuse is there for such an exercise of personal control
over IAB business? Why do these people think they have the God-given
right to run the Internet any way they damn well please? I never
interfered with SAAG business, and I have five SAAG mailing list
recipients willing to swear to this in court, in case personal SAAG
archives aren't enough.


12. Historical summary: copyright issues

I had mentioned copyright on 6 February. RFC 1143 had been extensively
modified immediately before publication, in violation of copyright law;
I didn't want this to happen again. In March, after an attempt by a
certain IAB flunky to steal my writing, I pointed out once again the
automatic existence of copyright. On 29 March I offered to place my
document into the public domain; several times before that I offered to
transfer copyright to IAB the moment after my document was published.


13. Historical summary: tone issues

Cerf and Crocker complained about the ``tone'' of the first pure
revision of the TAP spec. I asked them repeatedly exactly what they were
talking about. They didn't say for over a week, though I did hazard a
guess which turned out to be correct. After they told me I removed the
statements in question. Why weren't they specific in the first place?

Kent and Ts'o have thrice stated that certain passages are not in
conformance with ``RFC style.'' I---and others---have asked what this
style is and where it's documented, as well as for examples of the
style, as well as for some explanation of how the passages would have to
be changed so that they have the proper style. Neither Kent nor Ts'o has
elaborated---yet they continue to claim that various passages are
inconsistent with ``RFC style.''


14. Historical summary: mailing list issues

I created the rfc931-users mailing list in November, chartered to serve
the users of the protocol. (I now regret my mistake in not choosing the
name TAP last year and creating a tap-users list.) During March Crocker
and others sent messages to the list which, in my judgment and in the
judgment of various readers of the list, were not appropriate for the
list. I repeatedly told Crocker to stop abusing the list.

Crocker stated in mid-March that rfc931-users was the ``official mailing
list'' for ``this effort.'' Yet he didn't explain how the effort had
suddenly become official, or how it had suddenly acquired a mailing
list---in particular, a mailing list with an entirely different charter.
I thought that official IAB actions were announced on the IETF list. He
also stated for the first time that he ``required'' a mailing list ``for
every effort.'' He had never brought up this requirement before.


15. Historical summary: cutting TAP out of the process

By late March, in response to my complaints about the abuse of the
rfc931-users list, Crocker had created an official list: ident. For a
few days after that people on both sides of the issues were happily
discussing the TAP spec. I kept a public list of open issues; a few
minor issues were raised and a few were resolved. (The character set
issue, for example, was brought up for the first time.) I estimate that,
with a week more of work, we would have had a perfectly satisfactory
spec which nobody would have objected to.

Then the floor fell out. On 29 March Mike StJohns sent a message to the
rfc931-users and ident lists. ``The "ident" protocol - where we are and
where we're going... Attached at the end of this note is a redraft of
rfc931, hopefully reflecting the current implementation state of the
protocol. This draft with subsequent changes if any is what will be
moved onto the standards track... Mr Bernsteins draft has been removed
from consideration for cause - primarily due to his threats to assert
copyright. His draft will not be considered further as a contribution to
the standards process... we had come to an impasse with Dan and this
looks like the only way to get the effort moving.'' (This, after six
months of inexcusable delay on Crocker's part.)

Again, I leave it to you, my readers, to judge StJohns's actions. I
recently ran a survey of the ident list: apparently StJohns didn't check
with *anybody* in the group before cutting TAP out.

After StJohns' exercise of dictatorship the Ident group was created as a
formal IETF WG, chartered to ``define a protocol'' to transmit certain
information. It's been going for nearly three months now. There's still
a security section, and there are still huge open issues surrounding
that section. StJohns recently took it upon himself to invent extensions
to the protocol, as usual without checking with anybody. (According to
his much more complex, and implementation-free, protocol definition,
UNIX usernames are limited to 8 characters. What a surprise for users of
UNIX systems allowing longer usernames. Why would someone add this sort
of idiotic limitation to a protocol, if not in an attempt to damage the
protocol irreparably?)


16. Standards process issue: perversion of requests

On 15 July 1991 I requested that the IAB move a protocol along the
standards track. As indicated above, the request was (apparently)
refused in March by Steve Crocker, though this refusal was not announced
for review by the IETF community, in clear violation of RFC 1310.
Anyway, Crocker sent me at least two messages along these lines: ``You
asked that we move this protocol forward. We are doing that, via the
Ident effort. What are you complaining about?'' He tried to act
similarly in response to my April 18 request, though he had no right to
do so, as my request was directed at the IETF Chairman.

It's easy to answer Crocker's question. Many of TAP's users believe that
the current Ident draft (1) does not reflect current practice; (2) has
not achieved consensus, or even come close; (3) is far too complex; (4)
has some unacceptable restrictions in the security section; (5) contains
false and misleading information. If it weren't for these flaws we
probably wouldn't be complaining.

But the larger issue is that Crocker has perverted my requests into
something other than what they are. When I ask, following RFC 1310, that
something be moved along the standards track, I expect my request to be
evaluated the way RFC 1310 says it should be, and either accepted or
denied on that basis. I'm not asking that some vague ``effort'' be set
up to standardize a roughly similar protocol, or even the same protocol;
I'm asking that this protocol spec be standardized right now. It is a
perversion of the request to interpret it as something other than what
it is.

I believe that RFC 1310 should explicitly deny the IESG the right to
pervert requests. If the IESG wants to say ``We deny your request, on
the basis of the following criteria in RFC 1310: ... By the way, you
might want to set up a working group to try to put together a better
protocol definition,'' then that's fine. But the IESG should not have
the right to wilfully misinterpret requests in pursuit of its own goals.
If it has no reason to refuse a request then it must accept the request.

In the meantime we should all recognize that Crocker's actions were not
sanctioned by RFC 1310.


17. Standards process issue: copyright

The copyright issue is, from a factual point of view, a non-issue in
this case. I've offered to put my document into the public domain. We
should all recognize that Crocker and StJohns are lying when they claim
anything like ``There are unacceptable copyright restrictions on this
document.''

But there's a larger issue here. RFC 1310 does not list copyright
transfer as a condition for standards to be published. In fact, it
doesn't mention it even as something to be considered. After all, the
IAB has never required copyright transfer before, and under the Berne
convention (which is now U.S. law) there are some hundreds of RFCs which
are automatically copyrighted. So how can the IESG make decisons on the
basis of copyright? RFC 1310 simply does not condone the way that TAP
was removed from consideration.

I'm happy to see that copyright is now listed as an issue to be dealt
with in future RFC 1310 revisions. Certainly, although Crocker and
StJohns were overstepping their authority, there was a grain of reason
behind their incompetent handling of the copyright issue: the IAB can't
be expected to publish standards for the community if the community
doesn't have the right to revise the standard later. Perhaps the IAB
should require that every RFC be placed into the public domain the
moment it's published. The IAB can protect the sanctity of its document
series by trademarking the name ``RFC.''


18. Standards process issue: IETF notice

This deserves repetition: The IESG has, twice, violated RFC 1310's
explicit requirement that its decisions be announced for review by the
entire IETF. I believe that the IESG's failure demands further
requirements. The IESG should be required to summarize each and every
request it receives, immediately, for the IETF's information. We as a
community cannot permit the IESG to escape public review. TAP was
handled incompetently, including more than half a year of inexcusable
delay; why did the IESG try to keep its actions secret?


19. Standards process issue: the job of the IESG

Let's review the RFC 1310 quote on the IESG's job. ``The IESG shall
determine whether a specification satisfies the applicable criteria for
the recommended action (see Sections 3.2 and 3.3 of this document) and
shall communicate its findings to the IETF to permit a final review by
the general Internet community.''

Notice that the IESG is commissioned quite explicitly to decide whether
the request at hand satisfies certain criteria. The criteria in sections
3.2 and 3.3 are quite specific and quite short. They simply say what a
Proposed Standard is, what a Draft Standard is, and so on.

The IESG does *NOT* have the job of deciding between two competing
protocols: if both protocols fit the criteria in RFC 1310 sections 3.2
and 3.3 then both *MUST* be recommeded by the IESG. But I have Gross
recorded as saying that the IESG refused my 18 April request exactly
because, in the IESG's opinion, TAP would compete with Ident.

The IESG does *NOT* have the job of deciding things on the basis of its
hidden thoughts about what's good for the community. But that's exactly
what Steve Kent and Ted Ts'o say it should be doing: they say, for
example, that TAP should not be standardized because it does not have
security as strong as cryptographic protocols.

RFC 1310 does *NOT* sanction the IESG considering *ANY* criteria other
than those listed. But Crocker's refusal of my July 15, 1991 request was
explicitly based on such issues as copyright. And Gross stated that
``duplication of effort'' was the primary reason for the IESG's refusal
of my 18 April request. Even worse, Kent has implied that, even if the
IESG recommends that TAP become a Proposed Standard, he personally will
reject the TAP spec because of its ``style.''

I don't have any suggestions for how RFC 1310 should be modified to
handle these problems. The IESG has violated RFC 1310's rules so
blatantly that I see no recourse other than direct appeal to the
community.


20. Factual notes

The current TAP specification is stable and well-understood: about 85%
of it is word-for-word the same as a draft which has been available
since last June, and the rest is formality; also, the protocol which it
describes has not changed since February 1990. The spec and protocol are
technically competent: to put it simply, they *work*, and the spec says
exactly what's necessary to guarantee future interoperability. There are
multiple independent interoperable implementations with considerable
operational experience: for example, my authd, Peter Eriksson's pauthd,
and the popular wuarchive ftpd. The spec and protocol enjoy some public
support: I have published a list of literally hundreds of IP addresses
running the server, and I have statements from nine people asking the
IAB to get the spec published as an RFC. TAP is not only recognizably
useful in some parts of the Internet; it's being *used*---the statistics
for the NSFNET T1 backbone show many tens of thousands of TCP port 113
packets per month.


21. Is TAP appropriate for the standards track?

RFC 1310 states: ``In general, an Internet Standard is a specification
that is stable and well-understood, is technically competent, has
multiple, independent, and interoperable implementations with
operational experience, enjoys significant public support, and is
recognizably useful in some or all parts of the Internet.''

So, given the facts noted in the last section, the TAP spec seems to
satisfy the characterization of Internet Standards in RFC 1310.
Certainly one could argue that ``only'' a couple hundred sites doesn't
constitute ``significant public support,'' or that the spec isn't
perfectly stable. But then again, I'm not asking that TAP become a
Standard yet---all I've been asking since last July is that this be
published as a Proposed Standard. RFC 1310 imposes nearly another year
delay before a Proposed Standard can advance through Draft Standard to
Standard; that'll be more than enough time for the public support and
stability and so on to become obvious.


22. Does TAP embody the goals of the standards process?

RFC 1310 identifies four goals of the procedures of the standards
process: high quality, prior implementation and testing, openness and
fairness, and timeliness. The first two goals were met in this case by
people working outside the IAB---but the goals of openness and fairness
and timeliness can be met only by the IAB. In this case the IAB fell
flat. Steve Crocker claimed in March that he requires a mailing list for
``every'' effort: so what was he doing between July and March with the
TAP effort? Delay Periods 1, 2, and 3 add up to six whole months during
which Crocker did nothing.


23. Does TAP need a working group?

RFC 1310 states: ``In most cases, a specification resulting from an
effort that took place outside of an IETF Working Group context will be
submitted to an appropriate Working Group for evaluation and refinement;
if necessary, an appropriate Working Group will be created.'' This isn't
always applicable, and I don't think there's any need for a TAP group;
but I still suggested this as an option in my 18 April request. The IESG
didn't take this option.

Remember the request perversion issue. If the IESG does create a working
group for TAP then it had better be in conformance with RFC 1310---it
had better be a group to ``evaluate and refine'' the TAP spec. Another
group like Ident, chartered to ``define a protocol,'' simply doesn't cut
it. Ident does not satisfy the IESG's obligations towards TAP.


24. Does TAP satisfy RFC 1310's criteria for being a Proposed Standard?

The IESG's job was to answer the question of this section's title. It
didn't live up to its duties so I'll address the question. RFC 1310
states: ``The entry-level maturity for the standards track is "Proposed
Standard". A Proposed Standard specification is generally stable, has
resolved known design choices, is believed to be well-understood, has
received significant community review, and appears to enjoy enough
community interest to be considered valuable.'' It also states one extra
criterion: ``A Proposed Standard should have no known technical
omissions with respect to the requirements placed upon it.''

The TAP spec---and the protocol it documents---are, as noted above,
quite stable and well-understood, and enjoy more than enough community
interest to be considered valuable. It has received far more community
review than the vast majority of IAB standards efforts, by virtue of
having been incorporated into a number of widely distributed programs.
I resolved all design choices a year ago, and the protocol I defined
then has not been shown to have any technical problems. (I don't claim
that every decision I've made is necessarily optimal, though on the
basis of the last year of protocol development and discussion I do
believe I made good decisions; I claim only that the choices have been
resolved. That's the criterion listed in RFC 1310.) As for technical
omissions, the TAP spec omits nothing. It contains all features
necessary to satisfy the requirements placed on it by its users. (And
there are no requirements placed on this protocol from the outside; it's
not as if TAP was designed to fill the IAB's stated need for a protocol
to do anything in particular. It just transmits uninterpreted octet
strings from one host to another.)

So TAP meets every single criterion in RFC 1310 for being published as a
Proposed Standard. I see no excuse for the IESG to have failed to accept
it---if, that is, the IESG had actually considered the criteria it was
supposed to consider, rather than shirking its duties in violation of
RFC 1310.

RFC 1310 goes further. ``Usually, neither implementation nor operational
experience is required for the designation of a specification as a
Proposed Standard. However, such experience is highly desirable, and
will usually represent a strong argument in favor of a Proposed Standard
designation.''

So not only does TAP meet the criteria for being a Proposed Standard. It
also has both an implementation and operational experience. So if the
IESG had any doubts about TAP, it should have been swayed by the
strong argument that TAP is a protocol *in use*! In fact, TAP has
*multiple* interoperable implementations---more implementations than
most existing Proposed Standards. How strong does this argument have to
be before the IESG gives in?

Note that the TAP spec is, at this point, solely a Technical
Specification, with only a very broad statement of its domain of
applicability. It does not include an Applicability Statement. So it
gets only a maturity level like ``Proposed Standard,'' not a requirement
level like ``Recommended.'' I didn't realize this until I read RFC 1310.


25. What now?

TAP is fully ready to be published as a Proposed Standard. The current
draft is technically sound; now that the security discussions have been
replaced by a disclaimer, there's little if any argument over the
document. Yet---for almost twelve whole months---SAAG and IESG have
refused to let TAP proceed through the standards process.

Permit me to speculate a bit. I think I know why Crocker, Kent, et al.
don't like TAP. They have a shining vision of global cryptographic
authentication. If we had that sort of security on the Internet then
nobody would find TAP useful. But exactly the opposite is true: TAP is
the best in its class right now, and hundreds of people are using it.
Crocker et al. don't like being reminded that their vision is little
more than a far-off dream. If they let TAP be standardized then they'd
be admitting to the whole Internet community that it'll be years before
their vision becomes reality.

Unfortunately for them they weren't able to find any good reason to hold
TAP back. So they started acting unfairly. Let's review the examples
documented above, in roughly increasing order of unfairness:

(A) During a total of six months---Delay Periods 1, 2, and 3---Crocker
and friends did nothing in public and said nothing.

(B) Crocker cut me out of the process, with the excuses that I was
supposedly ignoring a document (which had appeared less than a week
before), and that the discussions weren't converging (as if that were my
fault).

(C) StJohns has adopted the policy of ignoring my objections to the
security section of his document, with the excuse that I am supposedly
the only one raising objections (although other people have supported my
position).

(D) Crocker suddenly declared in March that the rfc931-users list was an
``official mailing list'' for ``this effort''; what a surprise for the
readers of the list. How can something be ``official'' if it hasn't even
been announced on the IETF list?

(E) Crocker claimed in March that he ``required'' a mailing list ``for
every effort''; he had never brought up this requirement in the eight
months before that.

(F) StJohns threw the TAP spec out of consideration at the end of March,
despite the fact that people on both sides of the issues were discussing
it at the time. His excuse was copyright.

(G) The Ident group, which was supposedly created in response to my
request from eight months before, was not chartered to handle that
request.

(H) According to Phill Gross, Crocker refused my 15 July 1991 request
sometime in March. He didn't announce this on the IETF list for
community review.

(I) The IESG refused my 18 April 1992 request in May. They did not
announce this on the IETF list for community review.

(J) The IESG decided between two competing protocols (and then decided
in favor of the vapor protocol).

(K) Crocker's refusal of my July 1991 request was based on such issues
as copyright, not on any technical issues. (And it was a personal
refusal, not one espoused by the relevant working groups.)

(L) The IESG's refusal of my April 1992 request was based primarily on
the issue of ``duplication of effort.''

Scary list, isn't it? To support these unfair actions they engaged in
lies, some of which are documented above (examples: ``we can set up a
dialog'' [Crocker], ``we will push it on to the "standards track" as
expeditiously as possible'' [Galvin, speaking for SAAG], the response
``within a week'' in January [Galvin], ``your efforts are not
constructive'' [Crocker]), and petty exercises of personal power (e.g.,
throwing me off the SAAG list [Crocker]). But words don't hurt; what
hurts is that the IESG has, for a year, censored a perfectly good
protocol, and caused documented cases of interoperability problems and
loss of time and money.

Fortunately I have two weapons to combat the unfair actions of the IESG.
My first weapon is RFC 1310, the IAB's official documentation of its
standards process. With RFC 1310 I can stop shouting ``unfair'' and
start shouting ``fraud.'' RFC 1310 describes exactly what the IESG
*should* have done in response to my requests, and what criteria the
IESG should have considered. By those criteria TAP passes with flying
colors---it's got a larger constituency, more public review, better
consensus, better technical development than the vast majority of
existing Proposed Standards, and multiple interoperable implementations
to boot. Although it's tricky to use e-mail as evidence, I'm seriously
considering suing the IAB for fraud on the basis of the IESG's flagrant
violations of RFC 1310.

My second weapon, my much more powerful weapon, is the will of the
community. Some of you out there must be shaking your heads in
disbelief, saying ``I never thought the IESG would betray the community
in this way!'' We all lose when the IESG doesn't follow its own rules,
ignores its own criteria, and then tries to hide its mistakes from the
community---especially when the result is outright censorship of a
protocol which *needs* to be documented in the standard series to
prevent interoperability problems.

I beg you, my reader: Say what you think. You don't have to trust my
summaries: the transcripts of TAPgate are a matter of public record. You
can do an incredible amount of good by raising your voice in outrage at
the IESG's attempt to wrest control of the standards series away from
the community. Pass around copies of this message, tell other people to
read it, send your opinions or suggestions to the tcp-ip or ietf lists,
talk about TAPgate at IETF meetings, tell me what you think (and please
say if you wouldn't mind my quoting you---every bit helps). Pick up the
TAP spec (draft-bernstein-tap-00.txt) and read it. FTP some of the
implementation work (thanks to Peter Eriksson) from ftp.lysator.liu.se.
And remember that this is a long message: just because you've made it
through doesn't mean other people will, even though they might be very
interested. Summarize, quote, complain. (Also make sure that Crocker
can't get away with denying what happened---please publicize any
relevant behind-the-scenes claims by summarizing them on the IETF list.)

It is time to force the IESG back into the position of serving the
Internet community rather than secretly directing its future. RFC 1310
makes clear that the Internet Engineering Steering Group must always
check its actions with the community, and derives its power from the
will of the community. *We* have final say. We can start by giving TAP
the fair and open treatment it deserves. I wish we hadn't lost a year---
we'll still have to wait another year for TAP to advance from Proposed
Standard to Standard. But maybe it'll be worth it if we make sure that
these abuses don't happen again.

---Dan Bernstein, [e-mail] 26 June 1992 
(These are personal opinions. I have no official affiliation with NYU.)


