NOMCOM Chair 1999-2000 -- 29 September 1999
-------------------------------------------

Call for 1999 IETF Nominations Committee Volunteers 


Hi,

I have been selected to chair the 1999 IETF Nominations Committee.
It is now time for me to appeal for volunteers to serve on the 
committee that will select this year's nominees for the IAB and 
the IESG. 

The NomCom is the IETF's way of choosing its leadership.  For the
NomCom to work as it should, the pool from which the volunteers are
chosen should be as large as possible.  The more people who volunteer,
the better chance we have of choosing a random yet representative cross 
section of the IETF population.  Volunteering for the NomCom is also a very
good way of serving the IETF community.  So please volunteer.

Ten (10) NomCom voting members will be chosen from the pool of 
volunteers according to the procedure described by Donald Eastlake 
in draft-eastlake-selection-04.txt.  

People who volunteer should be sure they can the afford the time,
several hours per week for the next 4-5 months.  
The task basically involves the following activities:
  - Reading candidate's statements
  - Participating in a weekly 2 hour conference call   
  - Attending the IETF meetings held during the selection process
  - Doing several interviews
  - Speaking to IETF participants about the candidates, the job       
    requirements or the process. Details about the NomCom process 
    can be found in RFC2027.
    
People who volunteer should also be sure that they do not wish to 
obtain a position in either the IAB or IESG this year, as NomCom
members are barred from nomination during the year they serve.

To qualify as a volunteer, a person needs to have attended 2 out 
of the last 3 IETF meetings.  Anyone who meets this requirement is invited
to volunteer by sending email to avri.doria@nokia.com.  
Please put "NomCom Volunteer" in the header.  Volunteer statements 
will be accepted until October 22.  The selection will be announced 
the following week.

Please volunteer.  
Please convince your friends to volunteer.

Thank you,

a.

----------------
From: avri.doria

