NOMCOM Chair 1997-1998 -- 16 March 1998 -- IETF-Announce
--------------------------------------------------------

1998 IAB Members 

I have been informed that the Internet Society Board of Trustees has
confirmed the Nominations Committee's nominees for the Internet
Architecture Board as of March 9th, 1998.  It is my pleasure to announce
this years list of appointees to the IAB: 

Ned Freed, Innosoft
Tim Howes, Netscape
Steve Bellovin, ATT
Brian Carpenter, IBM
Jon Crowcroft, UCL
John Klensin, MCI

Mike StJohns, Chair
Nomcom '98


Ned Freed, Innosoft

Ned Freed has been active in the IETF since 1990. He has authored or
co-authored many RFCs in the application and security areas, including the
MIME specification, various SMTP extensions, and the MIME security
multiparts specification.  He has co-chaired several IETF working groups,
among them NOTARY and NNTPEXT.  Ned is co-founder, Chief Development
Officer, and Chairman of the Board of Innosoft International, Inc., a
company specializing in electronic mail and messaging software. Ned
graduated with a B.S. in Engineering from Harvey Mudd College.


Tim Howes, Netscape

Tim Howes received his Ph.D. and M.S.E. degrees in Computer Science and
Engineering from the University of Michigan. He also holds a B.S.E. in
Aerospace Engineering. He co-authored the Lightweight Directory Access
Protocol (LDAP) specifications, LDAP Application Program Interface
specification, numerous other Internet RFCs and papers, as well as a book
on LDAP programming.  He led the team of programmers responsible for the
first and still widely-used implementation of LDAP, from the University of
Michigan, as project director and principal investigator for the National
Science Foundation-sponsored WINX grant.  He is an active member of the
IETF, co-chairing the LDAP Extensions working group, and is former co-chair
of the Access and Searching of Internet Directories (ASID) working group
and the Integrated Directory Services working group. He is currently
Management, Security, and Directory Architect for Netscape Communications
Corp. in Mountain View, California.


Steve Bellovin, ATT Labs

Steven M. Bellovin received a B.A. degree from Columbia University, and an
M.S. and Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill. While a graduate student, he helped create netnews; for this,
he and the other perpetrators were award the 1995 Usenix Lifetime
Achievement Award. He joined AT&T Bell Laboratories in 1982; given the
vagaries of corporate divestitures, he is now at AT&T Labs, where he does
research in networks, security, and why the two don't get along. Bellovin
is the co-author of the recent book ``Firewalls and Internet Security:
Repelling the Wily Hacker''.  He has been a member of the IAB since 1996.


Brian Carpenter, IBM

Brian E.  Carpenter  is Program Director, Internet Standards and
Technology, in the Internet Division of IBM, based at Hursley Park in the
UK. Previously he led the networking group at CERN, the European Laboratory
for Particle Physics, in Geneva, Switzerland, from 1985 to 1996. This
followed ten years' experience in software for process control systems at
CERN, which was interrupted by three years teaching undergraduate computer
science at Massey University in New Zealand. He holds a first degree in
physics and a Ph.D. in computer science, and is an M.I.E.E. He is the
current Chair of the Internet Architecture Board.


Jon Crowcroft, UCL

Jon Crowcroft is a professor of networked systems in the Department of
Computer Science, University College London, where he is responsible for a
number of European and US funded research projects in Multi-media
Communications. He has been working in these areas for over 17 years. He
graduated in Physics from Trinity College, Cambridge University in 1979,
and gained his MSc in Computing in 1981, and PhD in 1993. He is a member of
the ACM, the British Computer Society and the IEE and a senior member of the
IEEE. He is a current member of the IAB  and is general chair for the ACM
SIGCOMM.  He is also on the editorial team for the ACM/IEEE Transactions on
Networks. With Mark Handley, is the co-author of WWW:Beneath the Surf (UCL
Press); he also authored Open Distributed Systems (UCL Press/Artech House).


John Klensin, MCI

Dr. John C. Klensin is Distinguished Engineering Fellow in MCI's Internet
Architecture Department.  His activities there include both product design
and evaluation for MCI's Internet offerings, especially for Internet
applications, and providing advice and leadership on a wide range of
Internet-related policy and strategy issues.   In the IETF, he has served
as chair, co-chair, or document editor for working groups in electronic
mail area and for exploratory BOFs includings ones on mailing list
management and unsolicited email.  He served two terms as Area Director for
Applications and is completing a term on the IAB.   His involvement with
what is now the Internet began in 1969-70, when he participated in the
working group that created the file transfer protocol and made the decision
to include electronic mail capability in the network's design.



