ISOC -- 27 April 1998 -- IETF-Announce
--------------------------------------

IETF Wins Norbert Wiener Award 



For immediate release

Contacts:

Marsha Woodbury       Steve Coya           Martin Burack
Chair, CPSR           IETF Exec Dir        ISOC Exec Dir 
<mwoodbury@cpsr.org>  703-620-8990         703-648-9888
                     <scoya@ietf.org>   <burack@isoc.org>


                 Internet Engineering Task Force
                 Wins Norbert Wiener Award 

                                        
April 27, 1998

    The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) has been 
chosen to receive the prestigious Norbert Wiener Award 
for its tremendously positive role in the evolution of 
the Internet.  The award, announced today by Computer 
Professionals for Social Responsibility (CPSR), annually 
honors an outstanding leader for personal dedication to 
increasing the public awareness of the social and 
political consequences of the uses of technology.  This 
marks only the second time in the 12 year history of 
CPSR's highest honor that it is being given to an 
organization rather than to an individual. 

    "We have chosen to recognize the IETF particularly 
for the extremely open and democratic process with which 
it has effected the evolution of the Internet," said CPSR 
President Aki Namioka.  "CPSR believes that such open 
processes are both extremely important and seriously 
threatened, and have accordingly made Internet governance 
the focus of our 1998 program year."  In looking at the 
issues related to Internet governance, CPSR reviewed the 
historically important and ongoing role played by the 
IETF, and concluded that giving it the Wiener award is 
particularly appropriate. 

    "The IETF is gratified to be considered in this 
light," said IETF Chair Fred Baker. "We conduct ourselves 
the way we do because it works for us and facilitates 
Internet enhancements based upon widespread support from 
around the world. To our way of thinking, open democratic 
dialog is the only practical way to make sure that 
changing needs in the Internet are always in view. The 
one certainty about the Internet is that it will continue 
to change. The IETF's mission is to see that change 
results in progress."

    The Norbert Wiener Award was established in 1987 by 
CPSR in memory of the originator of the field of 
cybernetics, whose pioneering work was one of the pillars 
on which computer technology was created.  Norbert Wiener 
was among the first to examine the social and political 
consequences of computing technology.  He devoted much of 
his energy to writing articles and books that would
make the technology understandable to a wide audience.  
His books, The Human Use of Human Beings and God and 
Golem, Inc., were among the earliest works that opened a 
public discussion of computers and what they could do.  
He was especially concerned that there not be a 
mystification of the possibilities for computers, fed by 
unrealistic optimism.

    CPSR http://www.cpsr.org/was founded in 1981 by 
computer professionals in the Silicon Valley concerned 
about the use of computers in nuclear weapons systems. 
CPSR has grown into a national public interest alliance 
of computer scientists, information technology 
professionals, and others concerned about the critical 
choices facing society in the applications of computer 
related technology.  CPSR has 22 Chapters throughout the 
United States and is based in Palo Alto, CA. 

    The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) 
http://www.ietf.org/ is the principal body engaged in the 
development of new Internet standard specifications.  It 
is a large open international community of individuals 
who make technical and other contributions to the 
evolution and smooth operation of the Internet. There is 
no formal membership in the IETF.  It is open to any 
interested person. Anyone may register for and attend any 
meeting.  The IETF is divided into eight functional 
areas: Applications, Internet, IP: Next Generation, 
Network Management, Operational Requirements, Routing, 
Security, Transport and User Services. Each area has one 
or two area directors.  Each area has several working 
groups, which is where the actual technical work of the 
IETF is done.  Working groups operate under a charter to 
achieve a certain goal.  That goal may be the creation of 
an Informational document, the creation of a protocol 
specification, or the resolution of problems in the 
Internet.  Many working groups disband once they have 
achieved their goal, so the number and scope of working 
groups varies at any point in time.  Much of the work is 
handled via mailing lists. The IETF holds meetings three 
times per year.  

    The Internet Society (ISOC) http://www.isoc.org/ is a 
non-profit, non-governmental international organization 
providing leadership in the management of Internet 
related standards, educational, and policy development 
issues. It is the organizational home for the IETF.  
ISOC's more than 6,000  individual and 120 organizational 
members around the world make up a veritable who's who of 
the Internet.  Its INET conferences are considered the 
summit of the Internet, where the industry's movers and 
shakers discuss the future of the Internet.


-------------------
From: Martin Burack


