IAB Chair -- 15 July 1998 -- IETF-Announce
------------------------------------------

POC appointments 


IETF,

The IAB is pleased to announce that it has appointed two new
members to the gTLD-MOU Policy Oversight Committee following
the call for nominations described in the attached messages.

Pindar Wong will immediately take up the seat vacated by
Patrik Faltstrom, which runs until August 2000.

Lars-Johan Liman will take up the seat to be vacated by 
Rob Austein at the end of August 1998, for three years until
August 2001.

I wish to take this opportunity to thank Patrik and Rob for
their able contributions, and the other candidates for their
willingness to stand.

Regards,
   Brian Carpenter (IAB Chair)

--------- earlier messages ---------
IETF,

None of us are unique, it seems. To avoid any confusion here are
the attributions of the previously announced candidates:


    Dan Cohen             Clear Thinking Technology, Inc.
                          (not Danny Cohen at Myricom)
    Lars-Johan Liman      Ebone/NORDUnet/SUNET Operations Centre
    John-Francis Mergen   GTE Internetworking
    Rick Wesson           StockPower, Inc.
    Pindar Wong           VeriFi (Hong Kong) Limited

Regards,
   Brian Carpenter (IAB Chair)

-------------------------------

Subject: List of POC candidates
   Date: Mon, 06 Jul 1998 14:16:15 -0400
   From: Brian E Carpenter <brian@hursley.ibm.com>
    
IETF,

The following candidates were nominated for the POC by the closing 
date (see attached call for nominations) and are willing to serve 
if appointed. The IAB intends to reach a decision on the two
appointments shortly. Any comments should be sent to 
pocnom@iab.org by July 13th. Such comments will be treated
as confidential.

    Dan Cohen              
    Lars-Johan Liman    
    John-Francis Mergen    
    Rick Wesson            
    Pindar Wong

 -- Brian Carpenter (IAB Chair)

--------------- original call for nominations -------------


IETF,

Last August, the IAB appointed two people to the Policy Oversight
Committee (POC) established under the gTLD Memorandum of Understanding
(see http://www.gtld-mou.org ). One of these appointments (Rob Austein)
was for one year. The other one (Patrik Faltstrom) was for three
years, but Patrik has recently resigned from the POC following his
appointment to the IESG. The POC Chair, David Maher, has requested
the IAB to appoint two new people, one to complete Patrik's term
until August 2000, the other for a three year term until August 2001.

The appointees are expected to act as individual experts, not
as delegates or representatives of the IAB or the IETF. As last
year, the IAB has decided to appoint persons with strong technical
expertise in DNS and Internet technology and with a strong claim
to have an international outlook. The IAB has further decided
to make an open call for nominations from the IETF community.

Procedure:

1. This message is the call for nominations, which should be sent
   to pocnom@iab.org  by the closing date of 24 June 1998.

** DO NOT SEND NOMINATIONS AS A REPLY TO THIS MESSAGE; SEND THEM
   TO mailto:pocnom@iab.org **

2. Each nomination must give the name, affiliation, email address
   and phone number of the nominee, plus a brief statement (maximum
   10 lines) about the nominee's technical and international credentials.

3. Self-nominations are allowed.

4. The IAB will verify each nominee's willingness to serve for two
   or three years.

5. The list of willing nominees will be published by the IAB shortly
   after the closing date. Confidential comments from the community will
   be solicited. The IAB will then make its two appointments as quickly
   as possible, and announce them at or before the August IETF.

6. Apart from the above, the IAB will be guided in its deliberations
   by the procedures defined in RFC 2282.

7. Nominees must accept that a recall procedure, analagous to that
   defined in RFC 2282, may be invoked at any time during their terms.


Brian Carpenter (IAB Chair)           brian@hursley.ibm.com


