NomCom Chair -- 29 September 1998 -- IETF-Announce
--------------------------------------------------

Final Call for IETF Nominations Committee Volunteers 

Hi,

The annual call for volunteers to serve on the IETF Nominations
Committee went out a while ago.  This is the final notice.  It's not
only an important job, but by being on the nominations committee, you
can immunize yoursefl from being selected by it!

To qualify, you must have attended at least two of the past three IETF
meetings, be available for some fairly intense activity including a
substantial number of telephone calls , including conference calls,
probably for a period of about three months, and meet the other
requirements in and agree to follow the procedures outlined in RFC
2282. It would be very helpful, but not a requirement, that you plan to
attend the December IETF meeting. The ten voting members of the NomCom
will be selected from the qualified volunteers by an independently
verifiable fair process that will be posted later. Steve Bellovin has
been appointed NomCom liaison from the IAB.

IESG members whose terms are expiring, along with their areas, are as
follows:  

        Harald Alvestrand (Operations & Management)
        Scott Bradner (Transport)
        Patrik Faltstrom (Applications)
        Thomas Narten (Internet)


IAB members whose terms are expiring are as follows: 

        Steve Deering
        Tony Hain
        Erik Huizer
        Cyndi Jung
        Robert Moskowitz
        Charlie Perkins


It is possible that the NomCom will have to fill more or fewer slots
than this list, due to the creation or elimination of positions by the
IESG, resignations, transfers, etc.

The nominations committee is a crucial part of the IETF.  Please
volunteer if you have not done so already and are sure you can put in
the time needed.

To volunteer, please email your name, telephone number(s), and email
address to <dee3@us.ibm.com> no later than Thursday, October 1, 1998,
and put "NOMCOM VOLUNTEER" in the subject line.

The list of volunteers will be checked by the Secretariate for
attendance and should be final by October 8th and the committee members
selected from the volunteers by mid-October.   The remaining nomcom
milestones are not yet set because the date of the Sprint IETF meeting
is not yet certain; however, the bulk of the nomcom work will probably
be done from the December 1998 IETF meeting through mid-February,
1999.  This nomcom will also be responsible for filling later occuring
vacancies.

Thanks, 


Donald E. Eastlake, 3rd 
non-voting Chair, upcoming NomCom
318 Acton Street, Carlisle, MA 01741 USA
Internet: dee3@us.ibm.com
+1-978-287-4877, fax +1-978-371-7148

