IESG -- 12 October 1998 -- IETF-Announce
----------------------------------------

RFC1240 query 

The IESG is try to find out if the technology described in RFC 1240 is
actually in wide use.  This is in the context of trying to clean up some of
the RFCs which have been stuck on the standards track, with the aim of
advancing the RFCs which describe technology in current use and
reclassifying the others to historic.

If you have any information that indicates that there is a reason to
advance RFC 1240 please send that information to Scott Bradner
(sob@harvard.edu), the IESG member dealing with this RFC.

thank you


------

Network Working Group                                            C. Shue
Request for Comments: 1240                      Open Software Foundation
                                                             W. Haggerty
                                                 Wang Laboratories, Inc.
                                                              K. Dobbins
                                                 Cabletron Systems, Inc.
                                                               June 1991


          OSI Connectionless Transport Services on top of UDP
                               Version: 1 

1.  Introduction and Philosophy

   The Internet community has a well-developed, mature set of layered
   transport and network protocols, which are quite successful in
   offering both connection-oriented (TCP) and connectionless (UDP)
   transport services over connectionless network services (IP) to end-
   users.  Many popular network applications have been built directly on
   top of the TCP and UDP over the past decade.  These have helped the
   Internet services and protocols to become widely-spread de facto
   standards.  In the past few years, the ISO and CCITT have defined a
   well-architected set of upper layer standards which include
   connection-oriented and connectionless session, presentation, and
   application layer services and protocols.  These OSI upper layer
   standards offer valuable services to application developers (e.g.,
   dialogue control, transfer syntax, peer authentication, directory
   services, etc.) which are not currently offered by the TCP/IP
   standards.

   As indicated in RFC 1006, it is desirable to offer the OSI upper  
   layer services directly in the Internet without disrupting existing
   facilities.  This permits a more graceful convergence and transition
   strategy from IP-based networks to OSI-based networks in the future.
   Using the approach of RFC 1006, this memo specifies how to offer OSI
   connectionless transport service using the User Datagram Protocol
   (UDP) [RFC768] of the TCP/IP suite.

   We will define a Transport Service Access Point (TSAP) which appears
   to be identical to the services and interfaces defined in ISO 8072
   and its Addendum 1, but we will in fact implement the ISO T-UNIT-DATA
   protocol on top of UDP.  By this means, OSI TPDU's can be delivered
   across the Internet network, and OSI connectionless upper layers can
   operate fully without knowledge of the fact that they are running on
   top of UDP/IP.  In essence, the OSI T-UNIT-DATA service will use UDP
   as its connectionless network service provider.


