William Allen Simpson (fwd by IAB) -- 7 July 1999 --IETF-Announce
-----------------------------------------------------------------

IAB Appeal argument


As specified in the IAB appeal, I had hoped to have the opportunity to
argue my points and directly question participants.  Since that request has
not been granted, I am submitting this brief argument and several exhibits.
(This list of exhibits is not exhaustive.)

To avoid duplication, my issues and responses already in the body of the
notice of appeal are incorporated by reference.  This additional
detail is distinguished by the use of leading alphabetic groupings.

A.  IESG timeliness

A1  The goals of the Internet Standards Process are:
       o  technical excellence;
       o  prior implementation and testing;
       o  clear, concise, and easily understood documentation;
       o  openness and fairness;  and
       o  timeliness.
    [RFC-2026 page 4]

A2  The "Experimental" designation typically denotes a specification
    that is part of some research or development effort.  Such a
    specification is published for the general information of the
    Internet technical community and as an archival record of the work,
    subject only to editorial considerations and to verification that
    there has been adequate coordination with the standards process (see
    below).  An Experimental specification may be the output of an
    organized Internet research effort (e.g., a Research Group of the
    IRTF), an IETF Working Group, or it may be an individual
    contribution.
    [RFC-2026 page 14]

A3  An "Informational" specification is published for the general
    information of the Internet community, and does not represent an
    Internet community consensus or recommendation.  The Informational
    designation is intended to provide for the timely publication of a
    very broad range of responsible informational documents from many
    sources, subject only to editorial considerations and to
    verification that there has been adequate coordination with the
    standards process (see section 4.2.3).
    [RFC-2026 page 15]

A4  ...  The IESG shall review such a referred document within a
    reasonable period of time, and recommend either that it be published
    as originally submitted or referred to the IETF as a contribution to
    the Internet Standards Process.
    [RFC-2026 page 15]

A5  If (a) the IESG recommends that the document be brought within the
    IETF and progressed within the IETF context, but the author declines
    to do so, or (b) the IESG considers that the document proposes
    something that conflicts with, or is actually inimical to, an
    established IETF effort, the document may still be published as an
    Experimental or Informational RFC.
    [RFC-2026 pages 15-16]

A6  In all cases a decision concerning the disposition of the
    dispute, and the communication of that decision to the parties
    involved, must be accomplished within a reasonable period of time.
    [RFC-2026 page 24]

A7  Appellant has a significant number of drafts awaiting publication.
    Many of these have been waiting IESG recommendation of approval or
    disapproval for several years.  Appellant has periodically reminded
    the IESG and RFC Editor of these documents.  [Exhibits #1, #2, #3]

A8  "Internet Security Transform Enhancements" was submitted to the IESG
    for publication as Experimental in April 1996, and the RFC Editor in
    August 1996, and most recently updated in May 1997.

A8.a    This was an individual contribution, much of which had been
        written in 1994-1995, that "will not be considered by the Chairs".
        [Exhibit #4]

A8.b    The IESG did not review within a reasonable period of time, nor
        publish as originally submitted.

A8.c    After a June 5, 1997, appeal to the IETF Chair, the IESG
        refused to publish until after working group output.  This was
        especially detrimental, as the working group was already far
        behind its charter.  [Exhibits  #5, #6, #7, #8]

A8.d    On February 16, 1999, the IESG refused to publish after the
        working group had finished.  [Exhibit #9]  Note that the IESG
        decision is flawed and inaccurate, as the draft actually adds
        sequence numbers to AH in a manner incompatible with newer RFCs,
        but is entirely compatible with ESP.

A8.e    Many of the proposals in the paper were incorporated by the IP
        Security WG in later documents, but without attribution.  The
        document is an important archival record of the work.

A8.f    As an alternative, Appellant has proposed publication as Historic.
        [Exhibit #3]


A9  "IP Authentication using Keyed SHA1 with Data Padding" was
    submitted to the IESG for publication as Experimental in May 1996,
    and the RFC Editor in August 1996.

A9.a    This was an individual contribution, a minor modification of
        RFC-1952, that "will not be considered by the Chairs".
        [Exhibit #4]

A9.b    The IESG did not review within a reasonable period of time, nor
        publish as originally submitted.

A9.c    Many of the proposals in the paper were incorporated by the IP
        Security WG in later documents, but without attribution.  The
        document is an important archival record of the work.

A9.d    As an alternative, Appellant has proposed publication as Historic.
        [Exhibit #3]

A10 "The ESP Triple-DES Transform" was submitted to the IESG for
    publication as Experimental in May 1996, revised in form during
    meetings sponsored by ANX, and most recently updated in July 1998.

A10.a   This was an individual contribution, a major modification of
        RFC-1951, that "will not be considered by the Chairs".
        [Exhibit #4]

A10.b   The internet-draft was renamed circa 02 July 1997, submitted to
        the IP Security WG at the request of the new chairs.  [WG list]

A10.c   It was "released" to the authors on 19 Sep 1997.  [WG list]

A10.d   In July 1998, it was submitted to the IESG for publication as a
        Proposed Standard, or in the case it was not accepted, as
        Experimental.

A10.e   The IESG did not review within a reasonable period of time, nor
        publish as originally submitted.

A10.f   The document conforms with the roadmap developed in ANX.  In fact,
        it was one of the principal templates used to create the roadmap
        requirements.  [Exhibit #10]

A11 "The ESP DES-XEX3-CBC Transform" was developed during meetings
    sponsored by ANX, posted as an internet-draft in July 1997, and most
    recently updated in July 1998.

A11.a   This was an individual contribution, submitted to the IP
        Security WG at the request of the new chairs, based on one of the
        "Internet Security Transform Enhancements" (see section A8).

A11.b   It was "released" to the authors on 19 Sep 1997.  [WG list]

A11.c   In July 1998, it was submitted to the IESG for publication as a
        Proposed Standard, or in the case it was not accepted, as
        Experimental.

A11.d   The IESG did not review within a reasonable period of time, nor
        publish as originally submitted.

A11.e   The document conforms with the roadmap developed in ANX.

A12 "ESP with Cipher Block Chaining (CBC)" was developed during meetings
    sponsored by ANX, posted as an internet-draft in July 1997, and most
    recently updated in July 1998.

A12.a   This was an individual contribution, submitted to the IP
        Security WG at the request of the new chairs.


A12.b   It was "released" to the authors on 19 Sep 1997.  [WG list]

A12.c   In July 1998, it was submitted to the IESG for publication as
        Informational.

A12.d   The IESG did not review within a reasonable period of time, nor
        publish as originally submitted.

A12.e   The document is referenced by Triple-DES and DES-XEX3.

A13 Publication of draft-ietf-ipsec-ciph-cbc-**.txt was expedited,
    while the IESG Appeal process was unreasonably protracted.

A13.a   Prior to the IESG Appeal process, Appellant consulted Joyce
        Reynolds (the RFC Editor of record), ISoc VP Scott Bradner (the
        publisher of record) and Fred Baker (IESG/IETF Chair) whether legal
        action would be needed to prevent irresponsible publication.

A13.b   Appellant was assured in writing that publication would not
        occur until the issues had been "resolved", which Appellant took
        to mean would be the conclusion of the Appeal.  [Exhibit #11]

A13.c   The IESG abrogated the agreement, ordering the RFC Editor to
        publish the document.  [Exhibit #12]

A13.d   The IESG did not issue its decision regarding the dispute
        within a reasonable period of time.

A13.e   Publication of this document prior to the conclusion of the
        appeal was irresponsible, as it was known to be technically flawed,
        and was subject to allegations of plagiarism and misappropriating
        copyright.

A14 There is another document not a direct subject of this current
    appeal, but mentioned as an alternative in the earlier appeal text,
    draft-simpson-cbcs-**.txt, that was proposed in 1994 and 1995, and
    has been awaiting publication as Experimental since July 1997.

A15 There is another document not a direct subject of this current
    appeal, but mentioned as an alternative in the earlier appeal text,
    draft-simpson-des-as-**.txt, that has been awaiting Last Call and
    publication as a Best Current Practice since July 1998.
    [Exhibits #2, #3]

B.  Technical Errors

B1  A Proposed Standard specification is generally stable, has
    resolved known design choices, is believed to be well-understood,
    has received significant community review, and appears to enjoy
    enough community interest to be considered valuable.  However,
    further experience might result in a change or even retraction of
    the specification before it advances.

B2  A Proposed Standard should have no known technical omissions with
    respect to the requirements placed upon it.  However, the IESG may
    waive this requirement in order to allow a specification to advance
    to the Proposed Standard state when it is considered to be useful
    and necessary (and timely) even with known technical omissions.
    [RFC-2026 page 12]

B3  The IESG did not waive any requirements with regard to technical
    omissions.  [Exhibit #12]

B4  Design choices detailed in the IESG Appeal were also raised during
    IETF Last Call, and were not resolved.

B5  The IESG endorsement of 40-bit keying is a serious error.

B5.a    This is contrary to the Danvers' Doctrine, a strong statement
        of an open plenary that specifically discussed an IBM hashing
        proposal using 40 bits to make larger key sizes.

B5.b    This is contrary to architectural principles espoused in
        [RFC-1984].

B5.c    There are no backward compatibility issues that might have
        mitigated for a temporary transitional use of 40-bit keys.

B5.d    The IESG admits that errors in wording are present, where the
        word "all" in the cited paragraph might not refer to all the
        algorithms.

B5.e    A preponderance of working group members rejected the use of
        "cryptographically challenged IPSec" with 40-bit keying on the
        mailing list, including (during 1998) Steve Bellovin, Jim Gillogly,
        Steve Goldhaber, David Jablon, Helger Lipmaa, Dave Mason, Perry
        Metzger, Derrell Piper, Hugh Redelmeier, Bill Sommerfeld, Henry
        Spencer, Jim Thompson, and Eric Vyncke.  Messages in 1997, 1996,
        and 1995 are left as an exercise for the reader.

B5.f    The only proponents of 40-bit keys were Rob Adams, Daniel
        Harkins, and Roy Pereira.  Their level of polite discourse was
        not enlightening.  [Exhibit #13]

B5.g    The few others that posted on the issue during this time period
        appear to be in favor of fence-sitting, letting the "market"
        decide.

B5.h    Despite the lengthy time in responding to the appeal, this
        cognitive dissonance with an examination of the record does not
        give a good feeling about the depths that the "IESG considered
        your grounds carefully, reviewed the evidence that you submitted
        and investigated for itself."

B6  The so-called CBC document fails to meet technical requirements
    specified in [RFC-2411].

B6.a    Contrast the IESG lack of understanding,

        "However the document in question does not define any ciphers.
        It merely discusses how to use ciphers in the CBC mode of
        operation."

B6.b    with the Introduction of the roadmap:

        "This document is intended to provide guidelines for the
        development of collateral specifications describing the use of
        new encryption and authentication algorithms ...."
        [RFC-2411 page 2 sentence 1]

B6.c    and the more detailed requirement:

        "The document describing how a specific encryption or
        authentication algorithm is used should contain information
        appropriate to that encryption or authentication algorithm."
        [RFC-2411 page 5].

B6.d    That is, "use" is exactly what the roadmap is all about!

B6.e    The IESG admits that the so-called CBC document fails to meet
        almost every requirement specified in [RFC-2411].

B7  Other known technical errors should be corrected.  This is not the
    first time around in the IP Security Proposed Standards.  The
    document quality should be better, rather than worse.

B7.a    During preparation of previous IP Security documents, existing
        IP Protocols were surveyed.  None had an interaction with the
        simple IV generation described in RFC-1829 and RFC-1851.

B7.b    Steve Bellovin has admitted that including the Sequence Number
        in an IV assists against Replay and Reflection, and adds a few bits
        of strength to the first encryption block (the weakest).  Although
        more strength might not be an issue with 256-bit keys, it is a
        significant enhancement of 56-bit keys.

B7.c    The literature suggests that the most important consideration
        for an IV is that it not repeat during the lifetime of the key.
        This is easiest to assure with a counter.

B8  The IESG responses are so irrelevant as to appear obstructionist.

B9  The PPP WG document model used with algorithms for compression and
    encryption provide a better path for analysis and progression of
    standards process documents.

C.  Acknowledgements

C1  An Internet-Draft is NOT a means of "publishing" a specification;
    specifications are published through the RFC mechanism described in
    the previous section.  Internet-Drafts have no formal status, and
    are subject to change or removal at any time.
    [RFC-2026 page 8]

C2  Note: It is acceptable to reference a standards-track
    specification that may reasonably be expected to be published as an
    RFC using the phrase "Work in Progress" without referencing an
    Internet-Draft. This may also be done in a standards track document
    itself  as long as the specification in which the reference is made
    would stand as a complete and understandable document with or
    without the reference to the "Work in Progress".
    [RFC-2026 page 9]

C3  The roadmap document was developed under the auspices of ANX
    workshops and mailing lists, as the IETF IP Security Working Group
    was dysfunctional, and suffered under mismanagement.

C3.a    I was invited to an ANX workshop, and participated in the
        creation of the "roadmap", together with Rodney Thayer and
        Naganand Doraswamy, with the occasional comments of Hugh Daniels
        and Robert Moskowitz.

C3.b    Layering the documents and separating the transforms from AH and
        ESP was originally my idea, and I wrote most of the boilerplate.
        [WG list, Jan & Feb 1995]  Limiting the amount of this
        boilerplate was a prime motivation in formulating the roadmap.

C3.c    The first draft of the roadmap was based upon the layout and
        language of my latest drafts of DES and 3DES, and carefully
        compared with several other drafts for explicating differences.

C3.d    During the ensuing discussion, I made a number of revisions of
        DES and 3DES to exactly conform to the evolving roadmap.

C3.e    The first internet-draft of the roadmap included acknowledgement
        and references for both DES and 3DES.  [Exhibit #10]

C3.f    In [RFC-2411], all references to my name were removed.

C3.g    During the Last Call, and in the IESG Appeal, I requested that
        the 3DES "shim" reference be updated to the current internet-draft,
        or the draft published as an RFC, in accordance with [RFC-2026];
        see C1 and C2 above.

C3.h    It is inconceivable that work "referenced in writing this
        document" would deliberately be removed from its acknowledgements,
        yet it contains references to work never used in the body.

C4  The use of indirection in the Acknowledgements is insufficient.

C4.a    As noted by the IESG, the proper references to my previous work
        were replaced by references to a "Hughes" draft, that itself was
        based upon my work.

C4.b    The Hughes draft was rejected by the implementors, as it was
        overly complicated and so poorly written that implementations
        were not interoperable.  It is unlikely to be published as an RFC.

C4.c    References to the Hughes draft are inappropriate, and do not meet
        the requirements of [RFC-2026]; see C1 and C2 above.

C5  The removal of attributions and references is part of concerted
    effort by a few persons to sully my reputation and impugn my
    integrity.

D.  Chair Fiat Versus WG Consensus

D1  The IESG appeal decision repeatedly raised a malicious and
    egregiously false statement, unsupported by the record, that I have
    "refused to change [documents] even though the working group
    consensus disagreed with your opinion."  Similar statements are made
    four times.

D2  There is a well-known propaganda technique, sometimes called "The
    Big Lie", that involves repeating the same falsehood as often as
    possible, until it becomes accepted.

D3  Then WG Chair Paul Lambert began promulgating the big lie on the
    first posting of drafts.

D3.a    He told the internet-drafts editors that the drafts did not
        represent group consensus and were "intentionally disruptive".
        [Exhibit #14]

D3.b    His message contained a number of clear fabrications.  The names
        of this secret cabal of "six people" were not identified on the
        list or at any meeting.  No such document was published that week,
        nor any other.

D3.c    The documents had long represented group consensus.  The formats
        had been established over 6 months earlier.  [Exhibit #15]

D3.d    The WG Chair continuously obstructed the draft process.  He
        raised pointless objections on the list, showing that he had not
        even read the draft details.  [WG list Jan - Mar 1995,
        Exhibit #16]  He attempted to replace the authors.  [Exhibit #17]

D3.e    Even after promising the Area Director, he failed to announce
        the drafts as working group material, resulting in my first
        formal call for his removal.  [Exhibit #18]

D3.f    After two months of this misbehavior by the WG Chair, the Area
        Director ordered the drafts be officially considered working group
        material.  Note that by this time we were on our 4th revision!
        [Exhibit #19]

D4  About this time, another list member named Hugo began complaining
    that Karn and I were not taking his variants of Photuris seriously.
    He seemed to think it was because of his last name (somewhat
    amusing, as none of us knew his last name at the time, as it was not
    in his messages).  Actually, it was because he was busily thinking
    up ways to make all the design features optional (perfect forward
    secrecy, privacy protection, pre-computation, resource clogging
    defenses, etc.)  [WG list Feb & Mar 1995]

D4.a    His repeated complaint involved discrediting the authors, saying
        that we needed a cryptographer as a co-author.  [Exhibit #20]

D4.b    Actually, we'd had quite a few problems with cryptographers, as
        none of them seemed able to come to agreement with each other.
        [Exhibit #21]

D4.c    Many of his messages consisted of personal ad hominem attacks.
        [Exhibit #22]

D4.d    He interrupted a presentation at a WG meeting to say that we
        were not "qualified" to design Photuris.

>
D4.e    Informed speculation opined that he was trolling for authorship
        credit.  To some researchers, the RFC series looks like an open
        opportunity for padding the c.v.

D4.f    In April, 1995, we learned that Hugo had applied for patents on
        his Photuris suggestions.  There was strong consensus in the
        working group that patents were to be avoided.  [Proceedings
        32nd IETF pages 523-524]

D5  If anything, we were too willing to adopt working group suggestions.

D5.a    New drafts were released every two weeks reflecting discussion.

D5.b    Changes were made even when the authors disagreed with the
        working group consensus.  For example, we changed the name of a
        field from Sequence Number to IV, as it was used for generating
        a "derived" IV for CBC mode.  Some WG members didn't think a
        sequence number for replay protection was important, proposing
        rapid re-keying and per-user keying (Bellovin has since admitted
        he was wrong).  So, I moved it into a separate document (see
        section A8), and made support negotiable in Photuris as well.

D5.c    Also, we had written ESP transform drafts with both DES/3DES
        confidentiality and MD5/SHA1 integrity.  [WG list Jan & Feb 1995]
        The WG preferred orthogonality for AH and ESP, as there was no
        consensus whether the integrity would be over the plaintext or
        ciphertext, and we shelved the drafts for later.

D5.d    Moreover, we changed the authentication formula several times,
        as each batch of cryptographers made new suggestions.  After
        publication, more analysis showed that the method that we had
        started with was actually the strongest....

D5.e    If we had stuck to our original design, we wouldn't have had
        another round at Proposed Standard.  Large working groups are
        fickle, and 100 heads are not better than a small talented
        design team.

D6  The WG Chair(s) continued to refuse our contributions.

D6.a    During the December 1995 IETF meeting, "Paul Lambert noted that
        there might be other transforms (e.g. DES-CBC integrated with
        MD5 for use with ESP) needed.  He solicited volunteers to write
        up drafts.  Only Bill Simpson and Perry Metzger volunteered.
        Other volunteers are still solicited by the WG chairs."
        [Dallas minutes posted to the WG list 20 Dec 1995, missing from
        the Proceedings]

D6.b    As noted earlier, we had already written such drafts (see D5.c).

D6.c    Our concurrently produced drafts had been reviewed and accepted
        by the working group and IETF, and published as Proposed Standards.

D6.d    The Chair(s) secretly arranged for Jim Hughes to write parallel
        drafts, borrowing our text without permission.  No mention of
        this was made to the working group until the agenda was posted
        for the March 1996 meeting.  [WG list]

D7  The WG Chair(s) continued to ignore working group consensus, and
    manipulate the meetings to prevent Photuris from going forward.

D7.a    The working group straw poll had overwhelmingly chosen Photuris
        in April, 1995.  [Proceedings 32nd IETF page 526]

D7.b    Instead, the Chairs continued to schedule presentations for
        other proposals at IETF meetings.  [WG list]

D7.c    Moreover, the Chairs announced a working group last call for
        SKIP on 14 November 1995.  [WG list]

D7.d    Furthermore, the Chairs refused to allocate a time slot for
        Photuris at the December 1995 meeting.

D7.e    At that meeting, outside of the working group, there was a
        demonstration of 2 interoperable Photuris implementations
        (Keromytis and Spatscheck), and at least 6 AH and ESP
        implementations.  About 10 vendors were participating.

D7.f    Immediately after the December 1995 meeting, the Chairs demanded
        that my name be removed from the Photuris drafts.

D7.g    Upon verbal appeal to the Area Director, my name remained on the
        Photuris drafts.

D7.h    The Chairs refused to announce a working group last call for
        Photuris, formally requested on 6 Feb 1996.  [WG list]

D7.i    The Chairs fabricated the "conclusions" of a straw poll, despite
        the fact that no such questions had been asked in the poll.  Note
        responses to the poll might be secret.  [Exhibits #24, #25]

D7.j    When this action was questioned by more than a half dozen of the
        list members, the Chair(s) posted a list of 6 items that they
        claimed were not in conformance with WG consensus.  [Exhibit #26]

D7.j1       Some were personal editorial opinion of the chair, not
            supported by the several persons that had contributed text
            to the sections that he desired to be changed.

D7.j2       (3) was a mandate that Security Labels be moved from an
            option to mandatory to implement.  This was directly in
            contradiction of a previous straw poll of the implementors,
            where only NRL and NIST supported them.  Security Labels are
            not required to be supported in IPv4 or IPv6, and were
            shortly thereafter reclassified by the IESG as Historical.

D7.j3       (4) was a mandate that DNS-SIG be moved from an option to
            mandatory to implement.  The DNS Security WG had not
            complete their documents.  Nobody had ever previously
            expressed a desire that this be mandatory.  Even to this
            day, 3 years later, there is insufficient deployment.

D7.j4       (5) was the option for Sequence Numbers (see D5.b), that
            apparently the chair VEHEMENTLY opposed!  Keep in mind that
            was an "extensions" document, not recently updated, and not
            part of my request for last call.  Since then, Sequence
            Numbers have been made mandatory in both AH and ESP.

D7.j5       (6) referred to notes to the list.  Those changes had
            already been made the previous October (about 5 drafts ago);
            indeed, about 2 days after they were suggested!  Thus, it
            became apparent that the chair(s) were not actually reading
            the drafts!

D7.k    A few days later, the Chair(s) posted what can only be described
        as a temper tantrum.  Many members of the list were horrified,
        and the IESG was asked to investigate.  [Exhibit #27]

D7.l    When the Chairs were forced to allow time for Photuris at the
        next (March, 1996) IETF, they interrupted the session after 10
        minutes, inserted Hugo as a speaker (where he recycled his
        slides from the previous year that had been rejected by the
        working group), and adjourned the meeting 20 minutes early.

D8  My formal complaint to the Area Director included the following issues:

D8.a    [details omitted]  When we re-posted our combined DES+MD5 draft,
        as requested in the December 1995 meeting, Paul Lambert ordered
        the secretariat not to post it under draft-ietf-ipsec.  [...]
        As the requested draft was noted in the WG minutes, it would
        be hard to say that it was "out of the blue".

D8.b    Although I recently posted a (hopefully) final Photuris draft,
        which included the results of considerable private discussion
        over 2 months among 7 reviewers (the actual implementors rather
        than the whole WG), the chairs have failed/refused to issue
        the last call for comments before sending it to you.  This is
        contrary to what they did for SKIP.

>
D8.c    And my working group presentation time was cut in half (or
        less).  He adjourned the WG early instead.

D8.d    Although you may find my style to be "pedantic and assertive",
        which may very well be accurate, never-the-less on my initiative
        the process issues have all been carried out exactly as
        required.  It is the prerogative of the authors to declare when
        the document is ready for final review.  [details from WG
        process document, and example POISED WG last calls by James
        Galvin omitted.]  This procedure is even cited by Dave Crocker
        as "facilitating" in his WG chair seminar.

D8.e    I have formally requested from the chairs a "last call" be
        issued to determine consensus.

D8.f    The chairs have refused, stating IN ADVANCE that Photuris does
        not meet working group requirements.

D8.g    The chairs have refused to restrict their role to determining WG
        consensus as it becomes apparent.  ...  The chairs determine
        _final_ rough consensus, not dictate the contents of drafts.

D8.h    The chairs are instead trying to control consensus, in
        particular by controlling submissions and refusing time for
        presentations by the participants.

D8.i    Note that the WG minutes from Dallas show that the WG "straw
        poll" decided _not_ to replace AH-MD5 with Hugo's HMAC.  Yet,
        Lambert simply gave Hugo another go at it (presentation time)
        and then asked this session the same question.  And got a
        different answer.

D8.j    He refused me time to refute Hugo's claim that HMAC is more
        secure (I was standing at the mike with the Van Oorshot MDx-MAC
        papers in hand.)

D8.k    This is the same technique that he used before.  When the WG
        decided to use the SIPP formats, he simply ignored it, and
        presented to the next IETF as if that had never happened.  He
        just keeps asking the same question over and over until he gets
        the answer he wants.

D8.l    Please remove Paul Lambert for misfeasance, malfeasance,
        exceeding his authority, and abusing his discretion.  He has not
        learned from correction of his previous errors.

D9  The Area Director decision for the IESG investigation introduced
    several fallacious and faulty findings.  [Exhibits #28, #29]  My
    issues raised were never answered by the Area Director or the IESG.
    These malicious and egregiously false statements have found their
    way into the recent appeal decision.

D10 In June 1996, when John Gilmore intervened, he found that the
    Chairs were unwilling to grant presentation time for Photuris unless
    my name was removed from the drafts.  Yet, a straw poll indicated
    that more than half of the participants were still interested in
    Photuris going forward.

D11 Karn and I were deliberately excluded from the IP Security key
    management discussion meetings, and Photuris was not mentioned in
    the Area Directors report of 19 Sep 1996.  [WG list]


