NomCom -- 5 October 1999 -- IETF-Announce
-----------------------------------------

Update to Call for 1999 Nominations Committee Volunteers 

According to RFC2027 the call for volunteers must include
the list of open positions with the solicitation to:

        to facilitate community members choosing between 
        volunteering for a open position and volunteering 
        for the nominating committee.

Since I neglected to include that in my first solicitation, I am making
yet another call for volunteers.  But any excuse will do.  Several have
volunteered, but nearly enough yet.

In addition to being a great way to serve this community, volunteering
for the NomCom is the best possible response to the urge most all of us
have felt at some time or other:  'I would have picked someone else'.
So, to anyone who has ever felt that way, I strongly recommend you send
your name in as a member of the volunteer pool.  The more individuals
in the pool, the better our chances of getting a NomCom which reflects
the diversity of the IETF population.

To qualify you must have attended 2 out of the last 3 IETF meetings.
You must also not be interested in being nominated to replace any of
the current office holders in the following positions:

IESG Terms ending in March, 2000:

Keith Moore             Applications
Erik Nordmark           Internet
Marcus Leech            Security
Bert Wijnen             Operations and Network Management
Rob Coltun              Routing
April Marine            User Services
Vern Paxson             Transport

IAB Terms ending in March, 2000:

Brian Carpenter
Steve Bellovin
Jon Crowcroft
Ned Freed
Tim Howes
John Klensin

Please Note: These people have not yet been polled on their
              willingness to stand for renomination.

Please send a note indicating your interest in being on the NomCom to
avri.doria@nokia.com.  Please include your telephone number and list
the subject as: NomCom Volunteer.

The deadline for volunteers is: October 22, 1999.


