NomCom Chair -- 29 November 1994 -- IETF-Announce
-------------------------------------------------

1995 IAB/IESG Nominations Committee - Request for Volunteers

Hello Folks,

Whenever there are open positions in the IESG or IAB, it is the
role of the Nominations Committee ("nomcom") to nominate candidates
to fill such vacancies. 

The nomination committee is selected by a random drawing among 
experienced IETF attendees. Persons who have attended at least 2 
IETF meetings are eligible to volunteer to serve on the nominations
committee. The nominations committee remains active for one year,
although the vast majority of the work is performed during the initial
5 months during the IAB and IESG transition period. Nomination 
Committee members are expected to participate in biweekly conference
calls thoughout this period, as part of the ongoing process of forming
the best recommendation possible for filling the open IAB and IESG
positions.

Clearly, the quality of the IETF leadership depends on two factors:

1) Establishment of a knowledgable nominations committee

2) An abundance of qualified candidates for the open positions

At this time, I am asking for everyone's assistance with the first item:
the establishment of a knowledgable nominations committee. If you have 
attended two (2) IETF meetings and have an interest in participating in 
the nominations committee, please send email to:

nomcom@bbn.com

with appropriate contact information (including name and contact phone #s). 
The list of volunteers will be verified as to qualification using the IETF 
secretariat attendance records at CNRI. A nominations committee will be 
formed from a randomly selected subset of the qualified volunteers.

We hope to have the nominations committee selected prior to the upcoming
IETF, so please respond as soon as possible, and in any case no later than
Wednesday, November 30th. If anyone (who has volunteered) has not received
confirmation mail, please contact me directly via email to "jcurran@bbn.com".

Thanks!
/John

-----------------
From: John Curran

