Phill Gross -- 28 March 1994 -- IETF
------------------------------------

IETF transition



IETF'ers,

In January of this year, I joined MCI's new Data Services Division as 
the Director of Broadband Engineering. As the title implies, I will 
be responsible for broadband projects, including those relating
to the Internet. (Sorry to be so vague, but no product press 
releases here. :-) I will be reporting to Lance Boxer, VP of Data
Engineering, and I will be working closely with Vint Cerf, in his new
role as MCI's Sr VP of Data Architecture.

My first 2 months at MCI have been action packed - it's been a fun, 
hectic, and challenging ride so far in which we are already planning 
a range of new data services. 

When I decided to join MCI, they promised full support for my 
committment as IETF Chair. MCI has been a strong Internet supporter
over the years, and I would have expected no less.

However, chairing the IETF is not exactly a small commitment, and 
after only a short period of being onboard, it became clear that I 
would not be able to give full measure to either IETF or MCI, if I 
continued to try to do both. 

Therefore, in February, I notified the current nominations committee
that I would be stepping down as IETF Chair after this week's meeting
in Seattle. (My term would have ended in 1995. Last year, in the 
first round of IETF nominations under the new POISED process, I was 
appointed to a new two year term as IETF chair.) 

As one of the founders of the IETF, I have often put the IETF first, 
ahead of my own professional career. I've been Chair of the IETF for 
seven years of crucial growth. We've gone from an initial meeting of 
15 people in January 1986 to regular meetings of 500-700 attendees with 
50-70 working groups. During this time, and with the extensive help 
and support of too many to even begin to list here, I established such 
IETF institutions as Proceedings for every meeting, Internet-Drafts, 
and the notion of working groups with charters. I created the IESG 
(with technical areas and Area Directors) which is now responsible for 
all Internet standardization. 

It's been a good run, but now it's time for me to accept a new set of 
challenges.

I certainly don't need to tell this audience that our young industry 
is entering an important new phase, with new services, new players, 
and new paradigms. I look forward to my new position, and the new 
challenges it presents, as an important part of my personal growth in
this new phase. 

However, I certainly intend to remain a close part of this community.
The IETF has meant too much to me not to remain closely involved. 
(Besides, the nominating committee has forwarded my name as a candidate 
on the new IAB. :-) 

Plus, I'm the only person who has attended *every* IETF meeting since 
that initial 15 person meeting in 1986. That's not a record I'm about 
to break!

Let me conclude with sincere thanks for the support and assistance over
the years of all those who really made it possible. I thank you.

Phill Gross

