IESG Chair -- 17 June 1992 -- B-I
----------------------------------

Internet-Draft                                                  Phill Gross
June 1992                                                       IESG Chair



                IESG Deliberations on Routing and Addressing



                                CONTENTS


1. ABSTRACT

2. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

3. BACKGROUND

3.1 The IAB Architecture Retreat
3.2 The Santa Fe IETF 
3.3 The ROAD Group
3.4 The San Diego IETF

4. SETTING DIRECTIONS FOR THE IAB/IETF

4.1 Course of Action for CIDR
4.2 Regarding "Bigger Internet Addresses"
4.3 Information and Criteria For "Bigger Internet Addresses"
4.4 Milestones And Timetable For Making a Recommendation for
"Bigger Internet Addresses"

5. SUMMARY

6. FOR MORE INFORMATION

7. BIBLIOGRAPHY



1. ABSTRACT

This note gives preliminary results from IESG deliberations on Internet
routing and addressing issues.  It provides a brief background of the ROAD
group and related activities in the IETF.  It also provides a preliminary
report on how the IESG will recommend various routing and addressing
issues be pursued in the IAB/IETF.  A more complete IESG report and set of
recommendations is in preparation.


2. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

This note draws principally from two sources: the output from the ROAD
group, as reported at the San Diego IETF meeting, and on numerous detailed
discussions in the IESG following the San Diego IETF meeting.  In
particular, this preliminary note draws heavily from the fuller IESG report
(in preparation, Philip Almquist Editor), which will serve as a
recommendation to the IAB.  Bob Hinden supplied the original text for the
"Criteria For Bigger Internet Addresses" section below.  I used an
annotated bibliography prepared by Lyman Chapin as the basis for the
bibliography in this note.  


3. BACKGROUND

3.1 The IAB Architecture Retreat

In July 1991, the IAB held a special workshop to consider critical issues
in the IP architecture.  Of particular concern were problems related to
growth and scaling.  The IAB felt the issues were of sufficient concern to
begin organizing a special group to explore the issues and to explore
possible solutions.

3.2 The Santa Fe IETF 

At the November 1991 Santa Fe IETF meeting, the BGP WG began a
concerted exploration of the issues of route aggregation using address
masks in BGP.  The BGP WG decided to form a separate subgroup to pursue
solutions.

3.3 The ROAD Group

At the Santa Fe IETF, the initially separate IAB and IETF activities were
combined into a special effort, the "Routing and Addressing (ROAD) Group",
to look at the key IP issues of scaling in routing and addressing.  

In brief, the issues involved:

        - Class B address exhaustion
        - Routing table explosion
        - IP address space exhaustion

The ROAD group was instructed to report back to the IETF at the San Diego
(March 1992).  The specific guidelines included minimizing changes to
hosts, must be incrementally deployable, and must provide support for
10^^9 networks.  

The ROAD group was not a traditional open IETF working group.  It was
always presumed that this one-time special group would lead to the
formation of other IETF WGs after its report in San Diego.

The ROAD group held several face-face meetings between the November
1991 (Santa Fe) and March 1992 (San Diego) IETF meetings (including
several times at the Santa Fe IETF meeting, December 1991 in Reston Va,
January 1992 in Boston, and January 1992 in Arizona).  There was also
much discussion by electronic mail.  

The group produced numerous documents, which will be made available as
Internet-Drafts or RFCs (see Bibliography below.  These documents are
currently available by anonymous FTP from gated.cornell.edu in directory
pub/road.).

3.4 The San Diego IETF

As follow-up, the ROAD co-chairs (Peter Ford/LANL and Phill Gross/ANS)
reported to the IETF plenary in March 1992 in San Diego.  Plus, several
specific ROAD-related activities took place during the IETF meeting that
week.  

The Ford/Gross presentation served as a preliminary report from the ROAD
group, pending a more complete report still in preparation (Brim92).  The
basic thrust was:


1)  The Internet community needs a better way to deal with current
addresses (e.g., hierarchical address assignments for routing aggregation
to help slow class B exhaustion and routing table explosion).  Classless
Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR; also called "supernetting") was
recommended.  CIDR calls for:

        - A plan for hierarchical IP address assignment for
        aggregation in routing

        - Enhanced "classless" Inter-domain protocols (i.e., 
        carry address masks along with IP addresses)

        - Inter-Domain routing "Usage documents" for using 
        addressing and routing plan with the enhanced inter-
        domain protocols, and for interacting with IGPs


2)  The Internet community needs bigger addresses for the Internet to
stem IP address exhaustion.  The ROAD group explored several approaches
in some depth.  These included "Simple CLNP" (Callon92a), "IP Encaps"
(Hinden92), "CNAT" (Callon92b), and "Nimrod" (Chiappa91).  Some of these
approaches were discussed at the San Diego IETF.  However, a final
recommendation of a single approach did not emerge.


3)  The Internet community needs to focus more effort on future directions
for Internet routing and advanced features.


Other ROAD-related activities at the San Diego IETF meeting included:

- Monday,  8:00 - 9:00 am,  Presentation by Peter Ford and Phill Gross,
"Internet Routing and Addressing Considerations"

- Monday,  9:30-12:00pm,  Geographical Addressing and Routing (during
NOOP WG session)

- Monday,  1:30-3:30pm,  Preliminary discussion of a CIDR routing and
addressing plan  (during ORAD session)

- Tuesday,  1:30-6:00pm,  Internet Routing and Addressing BOF (to discuss
ROAD results and to explore approaches for bigger Internet address space)  

- Wednesday,  1:30-3:30pm,  CIDR Supernetting BOF (joint with BGP WG)

- Thursday,  4:00-6:00pm,  Summary of ROAD activities in San Diego (by
Phill Gross), followed by open plenary discussion.

The slides for the Monday presentation (Ford92), slides for the Thursday
summary (and notes in the Chair's message) (Gross92), and notes for the
other sessions are contained in the Proceedings of the Twenty-Third IETF
(San Diego).


4. SETTING DIRECTIONS FOR THE IAB/IETF

4.1 Course of Action for CIDR

The IESG accepted ROAD's endorsement of CIDR.  The IESG felt that other
alternatives (eg, C#, see Solen92) not did provide both aggregation and
Class B conservation at comparable effort.

The IESG recommends the following course of action to pursue CIDR in the
IETF:

a. Publish the CIDR overview and guidance document (Fuller92)

b. Hold a BOF at the Boston IETF meeting in July 1992 (and, if necessary,
form a followup WG) to develop a plan for "IP Address Assignment
Guidelines".

The IESG considered the creation of an addressing plan to be an
operational issue.  Therefore, the IESG asked Bernhard Stockman (IESG
Operational Requirements Area Co-Director) to lead an effort to develop
such a plan.  Bernhard Stockman is in a position to bring important
international input (Stockman92) into this effort because he is a key
player in RIPE and EBONE and he is a co-chair of the Intercontinental
Engineering Planning Group (IEPG).  

Stockman will lead a BOF at the July IETF.  This BOF will factor in
discussions and proposals at prior RIPE and IEPG meetings.  

A specific proposal (Rekhter92) has now become the focus of this effort.

c. Pursue CIDR extensions to BGP in the BGP WG 

This activity has already begun at the San Diego IETF meeting.  A document
has been distributed on the BGP WG mailing list, and should be released as
an Internet-Draft prior to the Boston IETF meeting.

d. Form a new WG to consider CIDR-related extensions to IDRP (eg, specify
how run IDRP for IP inter-domain routing)

A proposal for this WG has already been submitted to the IESG.  The IESG
expects this WG to be able to hold its first meeting at the Boston IETF.

e. Give careful consideration to how CIDR will be deployed in the Internet

This includes issues such as how to maintain address aggregation across
non-CIDR domains and how CIDR and various IGPs will need to interact. 
Some of these issues will be considered in the WGs already mentioned. 
However, depending on the outcome of the combined CIDR activities at the
Boston IETF, the IESG may recommend forming a "CIDR Deployment WG",
along the same lines as the current BGP Deployment WG.

4.2 Regarding "Bigger Internet Addresses"

The IESG reviewed the various approaches described by the ROAD group --
e.g., "Simple CLNP" (Callon92a), "IP Encaps" (Hinden92), "CNAT"
(Callon92b), and "Nimrod" (Chiappa91).

The "Simple CLNP" approach has potential advantages and perhaps enjoyed
more support than other approaches.  However, the consensus view in the
IESG was that the full impact of transition to "Simple CLNP" (or to any of
the proposed approaches) had not yet been explored in sufficient detail to
make a final recommendation at this time.  

The feeling in the IESG was that such important issues as 

- impact on operational infrastructure, 
- deployment of new routing protocols, 
- assignment of new addresses, 
- effect of supporting new protocols, such as for addres resolution,
- effect on network management and security, and 
- the costs to network operators and network users who must be trained
in the architecture and specifics of any new protocols 

needed to be explored in more depth before a decision of this magnitude
should be made.

At first the question seemed to be one of timing.  At the risk of
oversimplifying some very wide ranging discussions, many in the IESG felt
that if a decision *had* to be made immediately, then "Simple CLNP"
might be their choice, but they would feel much more comfortable if more
detailed information was part of the decision.

Then, after exploring Simple CLNP in more depth, an attempt to develop a
better understanding, the IESG became concerned that the significant
changes required in hosts would make the transition complex, not
"simple".  For example, an ostensibly simple transition scheme has been
proposed for Simple CLNP -- install dual stacks in all new hosts and
eventualy decommision the IP stack.  But the IESG was concerned that this
lack of support for the very large installed base of older unconverted IP
hosts might lead to partitioning the Internet into 2 classes -- the newer
CLNP-only hosts and older IP-only hosts.

Given this limited understanding of the potential complexity, the IESG felt
that additional information was needed about Simple CLNP.  During the
period to gather more information about Simple CLNP, we felt that we
have everything to gain by also exploring other alternatives than might, in
fact, turn out to be simpler or longer lasting.

We need to evaluate any proposed new routing and addressing architecture
to insure that there is a thorough understanding of the impact to changing
from the current IP architecture to a new one.  We need to be confident
that we understand which approach has the most benefits for long term
internet growth and the least impact on the current Internet.

The IESG considered what additional information and criteria was needed
to choose between alternative approaches.  We also considered the time
needed for gathering this additional information and the amount of time
remaining before it was absolutely imperative to make this decision (i.e.,
how much time do we have before we are in danger of running out of IP
addresses *before* we could deploy a new architecture?).

This led the IESG to propose a specific course of action for choosing the
approach for bigger Internet addresses by the November IETF meeting.  

The next section describes the selection criteria, and the following
section describes the milestones and timetable for making an IESG
recommendation at the November 1992 IETF.

4.3 Information and Selection Criteria For "Bigger Internet Addresses"

This section describes the information and criteria which the IESG felt
that any new routing and addressing proposal should supply.

4.3.1 Description of Proposed Scheme

A complete description of the proposed routing and addressing
architecture should be supplied.  This should be at the level of detail
where the functionality and complexity of the scheme can be clearly
understood.

4.3.2 Changes Required

All changes to existing protocols should be documented and new protocols
which need to be developed and/or deployed should be specified and
described.  This should enumerate all protocols which are not currently in
widespread operational deployment in the Internet.

Changes should also be grouped by the devices and/or functions they
affect.  This should include at least the following:

        - Host Changes
        - Exterior Router Changes
        - Interior Router Changes
        - Domain Name System Changes
        - Network Management Changes
        - Operations Tools Changes

4.3.4 Performance Impact

The performance impact of the new routing and addressing architecture
should be evaluated.  It should be compared against the current state of
the art.  The performance evaluation for routers and hosts should include
packets-per-second and memory usage projections, and bandwidth usage
for networks.  

Performance should be projected based on the following projected data
points:

-Domains        10^^3      10^^4      10^^5      10^^6      10^^7      10^^8
-Networks       10^^4      10^^5      10^^6      10^^7      10^^8      10^^9
-Hosts          10^^6      10^^7      10^^8      10^^9      10^^9      10^^10

4.3.5 Large Internet Support

The proposal should describe how it will scale to support a large internet
of 10^^9 networks.  It should describe how the proposed routing and
addressing architecture will work to support an internet of this size. 
This should include, as appropriate, a description of the routing hierarchy,
how the routing and addressing will be organized, how different layers of
the routing interact (e.g., interior and exterior, or L1, L2, L3, etc), and
relationship between addressing and routing.

The addressing proposed should include a description of how addresses
will be assigned and who owns the addresses (e.g. user or service
provider). 

4.3.6 Support for TCP/IP hosts than do not support the new architecture

The proposal should describe how hosts which do not support the new
architecture will be supported -- whether they receive full services and 
can communicate with the whole internet, or if they will receive limited
services. 

4.3.7 Deployment Plan Description

The proposal should include a deployment plan.  It should include the steps
required to deploy it.  Each step should include the devices and protocols
which are required to change and what benefits are derived at each step.

A schedule should be included, with justification showing that the
schedule is realistic.

4.4 Milestones And Timetable For Making a Recommendation for "Bigger
Internet Addresses"

The IESG recommends that a call for proposals be made, with initial
activities to begin at the July IETF and with a very strict timetable for
reaching a recommendation coming out of the November IETF meeting.

A working group will be formed for each proposed approach.  The charter
of each WG will be to explore the criteria described in section 4.3 and
develop a detailed plan for IESG consideration.  

The WGs will have their first meeting at the July 1992 IETF meeting in
Boston.  The WGs will be asked to submit an Internet-Draft prior to the
November IETF, and to make presentations at the November IETF.  The IESG
and the IETF will review all submitted proposals and then the IESG will
make a recommendation to the IAB by December 1992. 

Therefore, the firm milestones and timetable for the IESG to reach a
recommendation on bigger Internet addresses are:

  June 1992 -- Issue a call for proposals to form working groups to
explore separate approaches for bigger Internet addresses.  Distribute the
"selection criteria" for public review.

  July 1992 -- Convene proposed WGs at the Boston IETF meeting.  The
"selection criteria" will be discussed publicly, and modified as
appropriate.

  July-November 1992 -- WGs continue deliberations by email and/or face-
face meetings.

 October 1992 -- Each WG will be required to submit a written description
of the approach and how the criteria are satisfied.  These documents must
be distributed as Internet-Drafts for public review 30 days prior to the
November IETF meeting to be considered.

 November 1992 -- Each WG will be given an opportunity to present its
findings in detail at the November 1992 IETF meeting.

 December 1992 -- Based on the written documents, the presentations,
and public discussions (by email and at the IETF), the IESG will forward a
recommendation to the IAB.


5. SUMMARY

The problems of Internet scaling and address exhaustion are
fundamentally important to the continued health of the Internet, and to
the long-term success of such programs as the U.S. NREN and the European
EBONE.  Finding and embarking on a course of action is critical.  However,
the problem is so important that we need the depth of information
described in section 4.3 before a decision is made.

Pending the outcome of further discussion of this note (eg, in the IESG, the
big-internet list, and in the IAB), the IESG will move CIDR forward as
described in section 4.1, and will issue a call for proposals for a bigger
Internet address space with the intent to begin immediately implementing
the timetable in section 4.4.


6. FOR MORE INFORMATION

To become better acquainted with the issues and/or to follow the
progress of these activities:

 - Please see the documents in the Bibliography below (the ROAD group
documents will soon be issued as Internet-Drafts or RFCs).

 - Join the Big-Internet mailing list 
(big-internet-request@munnari.oz.au), where the general issues have been,
and will continue to be, discussed.

 - Each separate new WG formed will have an open mailing list.  Please
feel free to join each as they are announced on the IETF mailing list.  

- Attend the July IETF in Boston (where the WGs will first meet) and the
November IETF in Washington DC (where the WGs will report and the IESG
recommendation will be formulated).  


Note: In order to receive announcements of:  

        - future IETF meetings and agenda,
        - new IETF working groups, and 
        - the posting of Internet-Drafts and RFCs,

please send a request to join the IETF mailing list (ietf-request@isi.edu).


7. BIBLIOGRAPHY


-Documents and Information from IETF/IESG:


[Ford92] "Routing And Addressing Considerations", Peter Ford and Phill
Gross, Proceedings of the Twenty-Third IETF, March 1992.

[Gross92] Chair's Message and Minutes of the Open IETF Plenary, Phill
Gross, Proceedings of the Twenty-Third IETF, March 1992.

[Almq92] "IESG Recommendations on Routing and Addressing", IESG (Philip
Almquist editor), in preparation, (current draft May 3, 1992)


-Documents directly resulting from the ROAD group


[Fuller92] "Supernetting:  an Address Assignment and Aggregation
Strategy", Vince Fuller, Tony Li, Jessica Yu, and Kannan Varadhan (March 9,
1992).

[Hinden92] "New Scheme for Internet Routing and Addressing (ENCAPS)",
Bob Hinden (March 16, 1992).

[Callon92a] "A Simple CLNP-based Proposal for Internet Addressing and
Routing", Ross Callon (April 2, 1992).

[Deering92] "City Codes:  An Alternative Scheme for OSI NSAP Allocation
in the Internet", Steve Deering (January 7, 1992).

[Brim92] "Summary Report from the Routing and Addressing (ROAD) Group",
Scott Brim (Editor), preliminary draft (April 3, 1992)

[Callon92b] CNAT


-Related Documents


[Stockman92] "A Proposal for a Global Internet Addressing Scheme", Daniel
Karrenberg and Bernhard Stockman, Internet-Draft (May 28, 1992).

[Rekhter92] "Guidelines for IP Address Allocation", Y. Rekhter and T. Li,
Internet-Draft (May 1992).

[Solen92]  "A Revision to IP Address Classifications", F. Solensky and F.
Kastenholz (March 1992).

[Wang92]  "A Two-Tier Address Structure for the Internet:  A Solution to
the Problem of Address Space Exhaustion", Z. Wang and J. Crowcroft, RFC
1335 (May 1992).

[Callon91]  "Guidelines for OSI NSAP Allocation in the Internet", Ross
Callon, Ella Gardner, and Richard Colella, RFC 1237 (July 1991).

[Tsuchiya92a]  NAT, Internet-Draft

[Tsuchiya92b]  "The P Internet Protocol (PIP)", Internet-Draft.

[Chiappa91]  "NIMROD", Internet-Draft


