KRE -- 13 August 1995 -- CIDRD
------------------------------

draft-ietf-cidrd-ownership-01.txt to a BCP



No.

I am very glad that Simon Poole got in ahead of me with this
opinion - in fact, I have been deliberately delaying sending it,
as I'm not sure I'm really brave enough to express a contrary
opinion in the cidrd wg - and in particular, on the list.  This
seems to be something that is just not tolerated.

Anyway, prepare yourselves for a long message, and just
remember, writing this is a lot more work than reading it!

First, as a BCP, I say no, as what the document describes are
by no means current practices.   They may be desireable
practices, on which I will comment layer, but current practices
are not what is being described.   This may be more a problem
with the label (BCP) than anything else, but we have what we
have.

More importantly, I would not support this doc even as an
informational RFC.

As Simon said, there's no doubt that, whatever the doc attempts
to say, what its attempting to achieve is a change in de facto
address allocation policy.   Whatever has, or has not, been said
about the question of address ownership in the past, there is
absolutely no question but that it has been assumed that
addresses once allocated may be retained indefinitely.  Its not
even necessary to seek anecdotal evidence for this - its clear
from the design of protocols like SNMP, where addresses are used
as OIDs that addresses have been assumed to be comparatively
stable objects in IPv4.   Products also assume this - IP
addresses are used in product licence validation, they're
configured into access lists, they're basically treated as
something upon which the stability is possible to rely.

Changing the address stability policy (let's forget meaningless
words like "ownership") without suggesting at least possible
solutions to the problems caused by the change is simply not
good enough.   Please explain in the doc how one deals with
a licence based on the IP address for a product whose vendor
has gone out of business, and no new licence can be issued.

Next, for such a fundamental change, alternative proposals for
solving the problem the change is intended to overcome must be
considered.  If they can be shown to be inadequate, leaving
only one solution remaining, fine, but to act as if there is
only one possible solution, and nothing else needs to be
considered at all is not adequate for a policy change of this
magnitude.

Of course, its not good enough for me to simply say that there
must be other possible solutions that should have been
considered in the draft, and leave it at that - I have to
show some other possibilities that should have been considered,
so that's what I will do.   I didn't say this message was going
to be short, did I?

First, just a couple of days ago, a suggestion was made, perhaps
not very seriously, that was labelled at the time hot potatoe
routing (which of course it wasn't).  That was that rather than
handling bigger routing by simply building bigger routers, it
can be handled by simply using more and more routers.  Making
routers bigger & bigger is not sustainable, but adding more of
them is comparatively easy.  Of course, its expensive.

Not only does this scheme allow the size of the routing table
per router to be kept smaller, it also keeps the CPU load of
the routing calculations smaller, as there's less routes to
deal with in each router.

This was described in a couple of messages as creating a choke
point in the internet.  That's silly - all that's been done is
to replace each (and every) single router with a full routing
table with a group of routers instead.   Other than an extra
hop or two as packets pass through these clusters of routers,
and consequent small increases in propogation delays, there's
nothing much that can be said about the generic properties of
such a scheme.   Whether forwarding capacity would be greater,
or less, when packets may need to traverse an interconnection
between routers, rather than just the backplane of a single
router, is not something about which blanket statements can be
made.  That would depend upon the nature of the interconnect,
and what percentage of all packets actually need to traverse it.

A comment was made that this scheme also does nothing about router
cache sizes.   I'm not sure that's quite true, as if fewer
packets are traversing each router, I'd have expected the cache
requirements to be a little smaller.   Also, and probably showing
my total lack of understanding of current router cache designs,
I'd have thought the dest addr was the cache tag (or part of
it), meaning that none of this would have much effect, it being
the number of destination addresses, not destination net
prefixes, that really matters.

What this scheme is, of course, as has been noted already, is
just heirachical routing, which is what the draft is favouring.
However it's hierarchical routing implemented entirely in the
backbone nets, without requiring any assistance by the end
user sites, who can continue moving the net numbers from
provider to provider without causing any particular problems.

As if that weren't enough, another way that the backbone (that
is, all those areas where default routing isn't used) can
impose hierarchical routing, without requiring the end users to
participate, would be to simply do their own "renumbering" on
the fly.   This isn't a new idea - its very similar to Noel's
"IP addresses as identifiers rather than addresses", but without
going quite so far.

When a packet arrives at a no-default router, one of three
cases exist.   Either there is no route to the destination at
all, which is not an interesting case; or the destination is
"local", and there's a known route; or the packet needs to
be transmitted across the backbone to some other area (without
defining just what is an area here).  In that final case, instead
of holding a giant routing table of every known IP net prefix,
and routing via the IP number, the router instead can hold a
giant mapping table, mapping the IP addresses into some other
number, known only within the backbone nets.   The packet is
then sent, via some means, using this new number, to the
destination area, where the original IP address is recovered
again, and the packet sent on its normal way.

At first glance this doesn't seem like much of an improvement,
merely a substitution of one giant table for another.  Of
course, its not that simple, the advantages are two - first the
new, mapping, table is a lot smaller than the routing table.
It would need, at most, 4 bytes per IP prefix, implementing this
the straight forward dumb way would require just about 64Mb max
for the entire thing (there being around 16M /24 prefixes
possible).  That's more than current routers can probably deal
with, but we've been told that all of those numbers won't be
used till about 2018 - by that time, 64Mb in a router will
probably be decidely small - its already just average for a
workstation.    Second, the mapping table is relatively stable,
changing only when a net shifts from one area to another - and
recomputing it is trivial - so the cpu load of the current
network wide effects of route flaps can be much reduced.

Naturally, nothing is free - this scheme requires a new set of
numbers be allocated, and a protocol be defined to get the
packets across the backbone.   Fortunately, the latter is easy,
we can use IP for that, encapsulated IP, using a new magic
address to indicate backbone routing this way - perhaps the 240/4
addresses, or perhaps something more mundane like the 223/8
range, which could be reserved for this.   We don't need many
addresses, just one IP address per area - 16 bits would be
plenty for the number of numbers required, except that more
are needed to allow the addresses to be hierarchically allocated.
These numbers would of course be subject to changing to match
the topology of the net, but as they're used for nothing other
than this backbone routing, renumbering them should be reatively
easy.

Other costs are the need for new code in all the relevant routers
to do this, and lower forwarding performance as the encapsulation
and decapsulation needs to be done on packets to or from remote
destinations.  The first cost is a one time $ cost, $ costs are
never nice, but at least its bounded.  The second cost is also
fortunately a relatively fixed thing - it would be a penalty
when the scheme is introduced, possibly requiring extra routers
at some hot spots where the router before was just barely coping
and now no longer can, but it's not a cost that scales with the
size of the net, which makes it tolerable.

I suspect there are other schemes that can also work to manage
routing table growth - they just need to be studied and
investigated, and the best picked.  Perhaps that will be
transient topological numbering, but I don't believe that
we have done enough work in this area to say that yet.  It
seems like the "CIDR will save us all" chant has the zealots
enthused, and no opposing viewpoint is even allowed to be
heard.   Not that I really blame some of the proponents, there
is clearly a major problem to be solved - if you're in the
water, and someone throws a liferaft, its rarely appropriate
to throw it back and ask for one that is better designed.
Its conservative, and safe, to take what you're offered, with
whatever its faults, and hope its enough.  Its even easier when
its someone else who has to bear the costs.   Fortunately, we're
not quite in the water yet, and have just a little time to
find the best possible liferaft.  We should be doing that.

I suspect that some of the trouble we now have was illustrated
by a message Noel sent a couple of weeks ago.  In that he pointed
out three problems, and said that CIDR solves two of them.  The
problem isn't the missing third one, its that CIDR is being used
to solve two different problems.  It has done a very good job
at conserving address space - and its routing aspect is needed to
avoid the explosion that would occur if everyone who is now
getting a /20 instead of a /16 were advertising 16 C's (the
old way) instead of just the one /20.   However, I believe an
error was made when we attempted to extend that to solve the
routing table growth problems that are caused by simple growth
rather than the change in address allocation policy.  We should
be looking at other ways, and make sure we get the best.

In fact, if I can believe my memory, which is notoriously bad,
I think that CIDR may have never been accepted at all, had
it not been said at the time that CIDR could be used to help
aggregating routes, but that existing numbers would all be OK,
and when sites moved providers that would all be OK, as longest
match routing would get to their number wherever they connected.
We seem to be (attempting to) move beyond that, with very little
community discussion.   That is, widespread community discussion.
Discussing this just in the net community is not enough - while
it's the net managers who assign IP numbers, they're not the
only users of the things.

I suspect that there's more than one possible solution to the
problem that we have, and that the decision will be based on
the costs of the various possibilities - and on who has to bear
those costs.   But let's not just advance this draft as if it
was the one true way without at least having the draft examine
other possibilities, so that people who read only the draft
and have to decide what to say at the IESG last call can have
a little more of an even handed exposition of what the various
possibilities, and their costs, might be.

Finally, there have been comments made that IPv6 is just like
IPv4 in this regard.  That's certainly true wrt the packet
formats, forwarding methods, etc.  Its not true wrt the
addresses however.  IPv6 has been designed with address
alterations in mind.  It still needs more work to get this
done, but its clear that IPv6 addresses are, right from the
start, intended to be things that are not stable over the long
haul.  This means that they should not be used anywhere that
stability is required - meaning that the possibility of
altering them to match the topology is much greater than with
IPv4.   That's fortunate, as a giant mapping table of IPv6
prefixes doesn't seem very likely...

kre


-------------------------------
KRE --- 22 August 1995 -- CIDRD

ownership, leasing, renumbering, and that draft 

I have been quiet on this list for some time now, since
starting all this debate by daring to question the merits
of the draft under consideration (draft-ietf-cidrd-ownership-01.txt)

Since then I have been told that it is improper to object to
a draft without proposing an alternative, which I knew of
course in any case, [and which is usually a reasonable position
(occasionally something is simply so brain dead and unworkable
that even without an alternative it must be opposed)] and so
proposed a couple of alternatives in my original message.

I have also been told that it is not permitted to mention any
alternatives on this list, as this isn't the list for that
(that is, this isn't the working group for that).

Consequently, in this message you won't find me expressing a
direct opinion on what should be done with the draft, as doing
that without proposing an alternative (assuming of course, that
I would be objecting to its progress) is not the best thing to
do, and the latter is out of order.  Oh well, perhaps you can
draw your own conclusions from the facts/opinions that I think
I am permitted to send here - or perhaps more accurately, which
haven't yet been ruled out of order.   Note that if a chair, AD,
or doc author, questions this message with a response like
"Well, what else can we do?" I will take that as an explicit
OK to go ahead and post my suggestions, and debate their merits.

First, on the question of what is the current state of play
with regard to address assignments, and whether this draft is
changing the state of the world, or merely making explicit
something that was always there, but hidden ... clearly this
is a change.   It may have never been expressly stated that
numbers allocated were owned (what does it really mean to own
a number anyway), it has however always been assumed (and
practised) that a number once allocated remained with the
organisation it was allocated to as long as that organisation
desired to retain it.  That is, more precisely, that number
would not be allocated to any other organisation.  There is a
long established principle (of law) that permitting a state
of affairs to remain long enough, and allowing others to rely
on that, abrogates any right to claim otherwise.

Now this is not, of itself, an objection to the aim of the
draft, but to the way it is written.  That is, if address
leasing is decided to be the way the Internet needs to move,
then that decision should be made in a frank and honest way.
That is, the draft should simply say words like "Until now,
addresses have been allocated in perpetuity, this cannot
continue (for reasons explained), and consequently a change
needs to be made.   This document makes that change".

Second, there exist words in the draft that exempt existing
numbers from this scheme.  I have some comments on that.

First, the most minor issue is existing "as of when", which has
been asked before.  And answered as well.  This is not really
important - it's a pick a date, and be done with it, though the
draft should be more explicit about just when that date is,
perhaps with words like "as of the publishing of this draft
as an RFC".

What is relevant is what is the definition of "allocated" at
that time, whatever it is.   If I go to my service provider a
week or two after the operative date, and ask for a new number,
and the service provider allocates it out of a block they
obtained before the relevant date, is that an "already allocated"
number or not?   If I have a number I have had allocated for years
now (say one from the SRI NIC, to put it in perspective), but
which hasn't been used for almost as many years, that is, it
is not currently consuming any of the precious router table
space, is that number exempt from renumbering should I decide
to start using it again?

For a draft attempting to set in place a major policy initiative
this one is terribly lacking in detail.

Next, on the same issue, are we guaranteed that existing
numbers, however they are defined, as of the relevant date,
will never need to be renumbered?    Who is in the position to
make that guarantee?   Is the cidrd working group able to
force providers to accept ancient old numbers and provide
routing for them?   Since this doc is proposing means of
keeping routing working, isn't it rather a cop out to simply
ignore all the existing address allocations, as if they weren't
a major (perhaps the major) part of the problem being faced?

Would it not be better, if leasing and renumbering is the
solution to the world's routing problems, to simply make
the policy apply to everyone - which avoids all of the above
definition problems?   Of course it does rather raise the
issue a little higher among those IETF people who get to
decide on whether the draft should move forward or not, at the
minute everyone taking any notice of this issue (or essentially
all of them) can sit back "this doesn't affect me" and allow
it to slide by - which wouldn't happen if all of those people
were faced with renumbering.

On a related issue, every time a concern is expressed by someone,
on how they would not be able to renumber, the standard answer
is "this doesn't apply to you, only new allocations".  That is
an inappropriate response.   True, it deals with the particular
case raised, but fails to notice that these are just examples
of situations that arise all the time.  New organisations, not
yet connected, and not yet holding immutable numbers will find
themselves in all of the same situations as those of us who
are connected now, with all of the same problems we would face
if forced to renumber.   When responding to those who object
on this basis, the defenders of the draft should look beyond the
immediate objection, and into the reasoning behind the
objection, and explain how a new organisation, not yet
connected, not yet with a number, and consequently not yet with
the knowledge, even if with the means, to object, would avoid
the problems posed by those who do now have a connection, but
are being exempted from this draft.

Then there is the qualification that private nets are not a
concern of this draft, it applies only to "the Internet".
At first glance that seems resaonable, people building their
own private nets can use any numbers at all, right?   That
is, those defined for the purpose in RFC1597 (or its successor
when, and if, published), or simply any other numbers picked
at random.

Well, not quite.   This ignores the value of addresses assigned
to be unique, world wide, regardless of to what the addresses
are connected.   There seems to be some view prevalent that
there is the Internet, and it is important, and then there is
everything else, and that is all irrelevant.   All those other
nets have just the same needs as the Internet - they are just
typically a little smaller (or a lot smaller).   Two
organisations that wish to connect to each other need to agree
on a numbering plan that avoids conflicts - they need some
address allocation organisation to deal with this.  Of course,
for two of them, even several hundred, that isn't hard.

Where the difficulty arises is where two such private nets
decide to interconnect, having previously used independant
number allocation plans.   Nightmare is the correct description
of the results - however of course the draft's standard answer,
"renumber", is a plausible solution.   If the two medium sized
nets that are now to connect are doing that as two entities,
and are able to renumber, then that solution even works.

However consider the case where the two nets are not connecting,
instead one organisation connected to one of those nets wants
a connection to the other (simultaneously).  That organisation
can renumber itself, if necessary, so as to remain unique on
both of the nets to which it is connected, but how can it
renumber other organisations on the two nets, which know nothing
about each other, have no intent to communicate with each other,
but happen to have picked the same net numbers?  If my
organisation sends a packet addressed to 10.1.2.3 (where both of
the other organisations have selected net 10 from 1597), how is
my router supposed to decide to whom to send it?   Sounds a
little difficult to me.

There is a reason that unique numbers have always been
recommended to everyone, connecting to the Internet or not
(and which is why there are more non-connected allocated numbers
than connected ones).   It wasn't just that it "seemed good
at the time".  When we start to break the kinds of assumptions
that are the basis of the IP protocol suite we really need to
be very sure that we know exactly what we are doing, and that
we have considered all of the ramifications.  The answer "we
don't know any other way to survive" probably just means "we
aren't bright enough", and should lead to more work to look
for a solution that has probably been there all the time,
unnoticed.

Now I imagine that those who are going to object to this have
already got out their "irrelevant to this draft" big red
pens, or whatever, as 1597 address allocations are not being
directly addressed in it, and the question of whather they are
a good thing or not belongs in another discussion.

Yes, so it does - with one caveat, and that is that this draft
doesn't change anything wrt those kinds of allocations (or non
allocations).  Unfortunately, it does.  The problem relates to
just who does address assignments.  If address assignments are
now to be leases from providers, to whom does an organisation
without a provider turn if they decide that they need a unique
address?

One of the standard rebuttals to this is "the Internet shouldn't
be subsidising outsiders", and nor should it - the organisation
requesting a number should be paying whatever costs are incurred
in granting that request, however that certainly is a side
issue that isn't relevant here.

If addresses are still to be available to outsiders, from
somewhere, so they can have addresses that are known unique,
and which they can use to build their own private (though
possibly large) independant nets, and then interconnect with
each other, then what is the relationship of those numbers
and this draft?

If the organisation, whatever it is, that granted these numbers
finds that its original lease for its address block has expired,
and that it cannot be renewed, what happens to the addresses
it has allocated to unconnected third parties?   Is it really
correct to claim that this draft does not apply to such cases?

If the effect of this draft is that unique addresses are no
longer to be available to non-Internet-connected organisations,
then it should say so explicitly, and justify that decision.

Recall, this is the IETF - the IETF makes standards for all
users of the IP protocol suite, not just the connected Internet.
Anything published with the IETF stamp of approval should be
able to apply equally to all users of the IP protocols.

And finally (I hope) for this message, the draft claims that
an option for a site faced with renumbering is to decide not to
do so, and accept limited connectivity instead.   Let's
examine that option for a minute, and let's take the best
possible case for this to apply.

Assume that a site (X) has an IP number that has been leased to
them, and connects to a provider (P) using that address.  
Further assume that the only party with whom X has any interest
in communicating is one other site (Y) which happens,
conveniently, and probably not accidentally, to have a
connection to the same provider (P).    Now assume that X's
address lease expires, and for whatever reason, it decides that
renumbering is not an option for it.

The draft covers this case explicitly, or it seems to ...

   If the organization doesn't require Internet-wide IP connectivity,
   then renumbering can be avoided. In this case the organization may
   still maintain limited IP connectivity (e.g. with all the subscribers
   of its direct provider) by limiting the scope of its routing
   exception to its direct provider.

Now that fits X perfectly, that is exactly what X doesn't
require, all it needs is connectivity to Y.   Consequently,
it accepts the terms of the draft, has its routing advertisments
limited to its direct provider (P), where they still reach Y,
and in theory, everyone is happy.

But what about the rest of P's customers?   We assume it has
some here.  If P is routing packets bound for X's address to
X, as it has to do to retain connectivity between X and Y, how
do any of the rest of those people manage to communicate with
whoever has been reassigned the address that was (nominally)
taken from X when its lease expired?

Of course, there is a hidden assumption here, which is that
addresses reclaimed upon lease expiry can be reallocated.
Address conservation issues would tend to support this as
a reasonable practice, but perhaps that is not what the draft
intends, I can't find any explicit statement on that issue
one way or the other.   Perhaps one should be added so this
question can be addressed more precisely.

Perhaps the aim is that addresses, once expired will be placed
into a pool of "unable to be used or routed" addresses, and
forgotten, or something.

Note that X might have come to P from provider Q, precisely to
get connectivity to Y (perhaps with some service guarantees
that couldn't be met via whatever connectivity existed between
P and Q) bearing an address that was allocated (leased) by Q
originally.   X is still unable, or unwilling, to renumber.
So P's other customers can continue to continue to communicate
with all of Q's customers, existing and future, Q needs to
remember that it never actually received the address back from
X, and so never allocate it again.   Further, the relationship
between Q and X might not be good, X may refuse to tell Q even
if it does stop using the address - P may also not be a good
friend of Q's, and even if it is, doesn't necessarily know all
of X's intentions.   So there is no way that Q can tell that the
address is now free for use in the general case - it really has
to assume that it is immediately free after the lease has expired
(plus any grace period), or it has to assume it is never
available for re-use.

This won't (needn't) have any adverse implications for the
routing system, but it seems it may have in other areas.

Of course, the alternative would be to delete this paragraph
about limited connectivity (offering a little hope to those for
whom renumbering is not a viable option) and replace it with
one that explicitly says "renumber or no connectivity", but
perhaps that might be too politically sensitive to attempt.

There's also the waffle about what size prefixes can be
moved around without renumbering, which has been pointed out
before, and which I find one of the most imprecise and
meaningless specifications I have ever seen (it leaves the
"best" of the used car contracts for dead).

To finish, I find the draft imprecise, incomplete, inaccurate,
lacking in intellectual honesty, and impossible to actually
use for any practical purposes.

However, I am not permitted to draw a conclusion from that,
as to what should be done with it, as before doing so I would
need to offer an alternative.  I will not suggest new words for
a draft I feel is fatally flawed in any case - that would be
a waste of effort, and I am not permitted to offer my
alternative, so at this point I think I have to leave it to
others in the working group to make up their own minds - and
eventually the IETF as a whole.

kre

