IESG -- 29 August 1996 -- IETF-Announce
---------------------------------------

Protocol Action: INTERNET REGISTRY IP ALLOCATION GUIDELINES to BCP

  The IESG has approved the Internet-Draft "INTERNET REGISTRY IP
  ALLOCATION GUIDELINES" <draft-hubbard-registry-guidelines-05.txt> for
  publication as a Best Current Practices RFC. This document is the
  product of the CIDR Deployment Working Group. The IESG contact
  persons are Scott Bradner and Michael O'Dell.

Technical Summary

 This document describes the registry system for the distribution of
 globally unique Internet address space and registry operations.
 Particularly this document describes the rules and guidelines
 governing the distribution of this address space while keeping in mind
 the requirements of IP address conservation and the need to distribute
 globally unique Internet addresses in a hierarchical manner,
 permitting the routing scalability of the addresses.

 "Conservation" and "Routability" are often conflicting goals.  These
 goals may sometimes be in conflict with the interests of individual
 end-users or Internet service providers. Careful analysis and
 judgement is necessary in each individual case to find an appropriate
 compromise.

 This document replaces RFC 1466, with all the guidelines and
 procedures updated and modified in the light of experience.

 This document can be considered the base set of operational guidelines
 in use by all registries. Additional guidelines may be imposed by a
 particular registry as appropriate.

Working Group Summary

 The working group strongly supported the publication of this document.
 A text was added to the document during IESG review on the advice
 of a legal review of anti-trust issues.

Protocol Quality

 This document has been reviewed for the IESG by Scott Bradner and Mike
 O'Dell.

NOTE TO RFC EDITOR:

Please include the following text as an IESG Note:

 By approving this document as a Best Current Practice,the IESG asserts
 its belief that this policy described herein is an accurate
 representation of the current practice of the IP address registries
 with respect to address assignment. This does not constitute
 endorsement or recommendation of this policy by the IESG. The IESG
 will reevaluate its approval of this document in December 1997 taking
 into consideration the results of the discussions that will be take
 place in the IRE Working Group between now and then.

