ISOC -- 8 January 1993 -- IETF
------------------------------


Volunteers sought for IAB and IESG Nominating Committee


Folks,

It is time to populate the nominating committee which will make
recommendations to fill positions on the IAB and IESG for 1993-1994
terms. Roughly half of the positions on both of these groups is
up for consideration now and the other halves will be considered
in Jan 1994. Normally the chair of the nominating committee would
be sending you this message, but I have had some difficulty
identifying a chairperson, so have elected to work on that in
parallel with establishing the list of volunteers willing to 
serve on this committee.

There will be 7 members on the committee selected at random from
a list of qualified volunteers. The committee will have a chair
appointed by me and liaison representatives (one each from the
IAB, IESG, IRSG and ISOC Board of Trustees). The liaison reps
do not have votes but are there to be of assistance.

The objective of this committee is to identify (recruit, if
necessary, and it will be) qualified candidates to serve in
the open IAB and IESG positions. Persons nominated to fulfill
these roles must have demonstrable qualifications (previous
IETF experience, WG experience, RFC publications, other 
publications, other experience in Internet technology, 
experience in data communications, for example). IESG candidates
will be managing the affairs of a number of working groups
and should have some demonstrated ability to manage. 

The POISED working group, whose recommendation has led to this
particular formula for filling these posts, expects and hopes
that the nominations committee will identify appropriate and
qualified candidates (one per open slot). If consensus on such
nominations cannot be reached within the committee, multiple
candidates for a given slot may be offered. If this happens,
the IAB will make the determination for the IESG positions
and the ISOC trustees for the IAB positions. The IAB has the
authority not to concur in any particular nomination as does
the ISOC Board. However, this would certainly be a serious
matter, so I hope it doesn't happen. If it does, the committee
would be asked to reconsider its recommendation.

Since service on the IAB and the IESG entails a substantial
time commitment, candidates should confirm that they can
assure they can serve at least 25% time and that their 
employers are in agreement with such a commitment.

Candidates should be drawn internationally - the objective is
to have the best qualified candidates from as broad a geographic
base as possible.

With regard to volunteers to serve on the nominations committee.
they should have attended at least two IETF meetings (the
secretariat should be able to verify this). If you volunteer,
keep in mind that you will be working hard for the next month or
so since the recommendation of the POISED working group is that
the candidates be submitted to IAB or ISOC in time for ratification
before the March 8-12 IETF meeting in Columbus, Ohio. This means
the nominating process has to produce recommendations by the
last week of February.

If you are prepared to work hard on this and have the requisite
qualifications, please send a SHORT bio to: vcerf@cnri.reston.va.us.
I will accumulate these until January 15 at 5 PM EST at which point
a random selection of 7 candidates will be made among those who
meet the ietf attendance qualifications.

I would ask that Steve Crocker, the POISED working group chair,
make any comments he feels appropriate concerning the outline
given above - particularly if I appear to have misunderstood 
the procedure or charter recommended. Of course, anyone else can
make comments, too - but consider making them privately to me
if that's sufficient and save mailbox bandwidth for the ietf members.

Sorry for the length, but this seemed the best way to kick this
process off.

vint

