IESG -- 7 April 1993 -- IETF-Announce
-------------------------------------


Announcement of new IESG members



This message is to announce the new membership of the Internet Engineering
Steering Group (IESG) of the IETF.

To review briefly -- last Fall a specially chartered working group was formed
to examine how the procedures and structure of the IAB/IETF should evolve
to accommodate continued growth and new constituencies.  One of the key
recommendations was to install a nominations process to select new IAB
and IESG members.  The procedure would be for IAB and IESG members to serve
2 year terms with half of the positions of the IAB and IESG subject to
re-selection each year.  The Internet Society Board of Trustees would review
and ratify the new IAB nominations, and the IAB would review and ratify the
new IESG nominations.

Following the November IETF meeting, a nominating committee was selected by
a random drawing from volunteering IETF attendees.  Jeff Case served as the
chair.

At the Thursday evening open plenary session of last week's IETF meeting in
Columbus Ohio, Jeff reported the results of the Nominations Committee.  I'm
told Jeff will issue a fuller report regarding the committee's experience
in carrying out this first-time process, and there will be other
announcements regarding the IAB membership.  This message is to announce
the new IESG members.

First, let me give a some well deserved thanks and appreciation to the
members who decided not to continue on the new IESG.  These are

  Phil Almquist (Consultant) -- Internet Area
  Dave Borman (Cray Research)  -- Transport Services Area
  James (Chuck) Davin (Bellcore) -- Network Management
  Russ Hobby (UC Davis) -- Applications Area

Serving on the IESG is a volunteer job, and as these folks know all too
well, it requires a serious investment of time.  I suspect they will be
very glad to reclaim this large time and energy committment, but they
have served us all well and will be missed.  They deserve our thanks.

The new membership of the IESG is below.  The names marked with a "*" are
those nominated by the Nominating Committee and confirmed by the IAB.

Phill
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

IETF/IESG Chair          *Phill Gross (Advanced Network & Services, Inc.)

Applications             *Brewster Kahle (Wide Area Information Services, Inc.)
                          Erik Huizer (SURFnet bv)

Service Applications     *David Crocker (Silicon Graphics, Inc.)

Transport                *Allison Mankin (Naval Research Lab)

Network Management       *Marshall Rose (Dover Beach Consulting, Inc.)

Routing                   Robert Hinden (Sun Microsystems, Inc.)

Internet                 *Stev Knowles (FTP Software, Inc.)
                          David Piscitello (Bellcore)

User Services             Joyce Reynolds (USC-ISI)

Operational Requirements *Scott Bradner (Harvard University)
                          Bernhard Stockman (SUNET/NORDUnet/EBONE NOC)

Security                  Stephen Crocker (Trusted Information Systems)

Standards Management     *Lyman Chapin (Bolt Beranek and Newman)

        * = new or reconfirmed by the Nominations Committee

(Note: Prior to the Nominating Committee's deliberations, the IESG decided
to divide the Transport Services Area into the Service Applications and
Transport Areas.  Service Applications will include protocols used by other
applications, and not directly by users. Examples include DNS and NTP.)

