POSTEL@USC-ISIF -- 20 May 1984 -- namedroppers@SRI-NIC
------------------------------------------------------

re: comments on Domain Requirements


Hi:

I will attempt to comment on some of the discussion of the last week.

Opening Remarks:

   It certainly is interesting to find that there is a lot more 
   discussion about what a name looks like and what it means than there 
   is about the details of how the system is built.

   It really would be nice if when people start using the language of 
   the actual specifications or discussing details described there, that
   they took the trouble to review the specifications.

1)  Name-to-Address Lookup vs Directory Assistance

   One concept that seems to have been widely misunderstood is that this
   is a naming system, not a general directory assistance system.

   This is supposed to be a system for finding specific types of 
   information about exactly named things (with a few careful 
   generalizations in the name  search).  This is not intended to be a 
   system for finding partially described things.  The NIC WHOIS service
   and the CSNET Mailbox Name Service are example of more generalized 
   searching systems based on partial information.  The current IFIP WG 
   6.5 work on directory assistance is different from the domain names 
   system in this respect, too, it aims to find things based on partial 
   information (this also makes it much harder to implement).

   The notion that you don't want to worry about SRI being in EDU or GOV
   or COR, is like saying that you don't want to worry about Los Angeles
   being in California or Texas or Oregon.

      SRI will choose to be in some domain and will advertise its 
      address.

   When you call me on the phone you have to know my phone number, you 
   don't get to guess an area code, and some how expect all numbers to 
   be known in all area codes.

      I tell my number to people i expect to call me, and i have my 
      number listed in directories.  I don't expect people to be able to
      guess it.

   With the current mailboxes and host name the same applies.  I tell 
   people my mailbox name (POSTEL@USC-ISIF.ARPA), and i list it in 
   directories (NIC WHOIS).  I expect the same practice to continue with
   domains.  It is possible that some time in the future things will 
   change and my mailbox might be "POSTEL@ISI.USC.EDU".  I wouldn't 
   expect anyone to guess that that was my mailbox, i would tell some 
   people and get the directory entry updated.

2)  Unique Names

   While it is possible for a host to have several (even many) names in 
   the domain name system, that is not the general intent, and i don't 
   think it is a good idea.

   Think about the hosts names we have now, would you want your host to 
   have several names?  If it did, what would your mailbox be?  How many
   more duplicate messages would you receive?

      Suppose my host was known as both USC-ISIF.ARPA and LA-47.ARPA.  
      Then i could have mailboxes POSTEL@USC-ISIF.ARPA and 
      POSTEL@LA-47.ARPA.  How is someone at another host supposed to 
      know that these two mailbox addresses are the same person?  In 
      general, they can't, and so i will get more duplicate mail than i 
      do now (which is already too much).

   Also think about the other side of it.  If my host has more than one 
   name, which one should it fill in for me on the FROM line when i send
   a message?  If there is some default that is used, that is the 
   "preferred" name for the host.  Given that the host has a preferred 
   name, why not use that name all the time?

   It was suggested that since a host can be connected to more than one 
   network and thereby can have more than one hardware address, it 
   follows that it should have more than one name.  This is like saying 
   that a city ought to be allowed different names for each type of 
   transportation system (roads, rail, ship, air) that it is connected 
   to.

   It is certainly allowed for a host to have multiple names, and it if 
   a host did have multiple names they could be associated with the 
   networks the host was connected to.  I don't see any advantage in 
   doing it.

   Names have to be unique only with respect to their siblings.  There 
   may be names like:

      XYZ.PQR.ABC
      WUV.PQR.ABC
      XYZ.IJK.ABC
      WUV.IJK.ABC

   to name four different hosts.

   Many people seemed to think the example in the DRAFT RFC was either 
   confusing in itself or would lead to a confusing result.

      For example, a host "XYZ" at MIT might possible be considered as a
      candidate for becoming any of XYZ.ARPA, XYZ.CSNET.EDU, or 
      XYZ.MIT.EDU.

         The owner of host XYZ may choose which domain to join, 
         depending on which domain administrators are willing to have 
         him.

   Some people seem to be upset that this could possibly result in a 
   range of host names like:

      APIARY-1.MIT.ARPA
      DASH.MIT.CSNET.EDU
      MULTICS.MIT.EDU

   First, i doubt that MIT would let this happen, but one can't be sure.
   Second, i am not sure what to be upset about.  The notion seems to be
   that somehow i know that this MULTICS is an MIT computer but can't 
   guess if it is in ARPA or EDU.  This is the kind of problem the IFIP 
   system is supposed to solve, but the domain name system does not.  I 
   think the real question here is more like "I want to send a message 
   to Dave Clark of MIT, and i think his mailbox is on the Multics 
   computer there, what is the exact string i should enter to send mail 
   to him?".  This is a question for the NIC WHOIS service, not the 
   domain name server.

   The notion that "an organization name should be unique within the 
   community that is likely to want to talk to it" is a bit strange.  
   How is this uniqueness to be preserved?  What happens when some 
   previously separate communities discover some common interests?  The 
   whole point of domains is to subdivide the name assignment problem.  
   To try to preserve some higher level uniqueness would require the 
   very central coordination we are trying to eliminate!  It should be 
   clear that there is no hope of such uniqueness in the long run, so 
   let's not make any plans based on such a false hope.

3)  Syntax vs. Semantics

   It has been suggest that semantics to too political for us to deal 
   with and that we ought to stick with syntax.

   I agree that semantics seems to get more people with more points of 
   view saying more outrageous things than one would expect or wish to 
   cope with.

   It would be nice to stick to syntax, except that we actually want to 
   put this system into service, and to do that we have to have some 
   real names to use.  It seems to me that we have to deal with the 
   semantics now.

   If we don't have the savy or clout to sort this out, we ought to 
   forward the problem to those who do.  Any nominations?

4)  The Top Level Domains

   There is a great deal of discussion of these top level domain names. 
   The general tone seems to be that it is a good idea to have only a 
   few top level names but these are "too abstract".

   I have not heard many suggestions for other top level names except 
   for currently existing things.  I think that would lead to a lot of 
   top level domains.

   It was suggested that there be a standard top level name for use by 
   isolated systems.  I am not sure that would be the best approach.  I 
   would favor registering the names of isolated systems in some way.  
   Experience shows that isolated systems tend to get connected.

5)  Countries as Domains

   Where does the UK domain go?  Good question.  We probably should 
   allow countries to be top level domains.  I don't think this means 
   that we should have only countries as top level domains.  There are 
   quite a number of international entities that would be difficult to 
   divide up into countries.

6)  ARPA and DDN Domains

   ARPA and DDN probably in an ideal world should not be top level 
   domains.

   At best they probably ought to be:  ARPA.DOD.GOV.USA and 
   DDN.DOD.GOV.USA.

      And the computer i use would be:  F.ISI.USC.ARPA.DOD.GOV.USA

   However, for a while (probably a long while), they will be top level 
   names.  This is a system that has to evolve into use.  We are not 
   operating with a blank slate.  Right now we have all the hosts in the
   ARPA & DDN Internets operating with domain style host names in the 
   ARPA domain.

   There have also been some comments about the requirements being 
   designed to favor the DDN and DARPA communities, or to prevent groups
   not working for DARPA or other military agencies from qualifying.  
   This is not the case.  We are perfectly happy if this naming system 
   is widely used.  This is clearly to DARPA's and DDN's advantage.  
   Because of the history and the sponsorship of this effort DARPA and 
   DDN will get some special treatment.  However the attempt here is to 
   set a policy for using domain style names that is fair for everyone.

7)  Top Level Administrators

   It was noted that it is strange that all the top level domains are 
   administrated by the NIC.  The NIC is the agent of the the DDN and of
   DARPA for the administration of those two domains, as for the other 
   domains the NIC does not want the job!  If we can find some 
   reasonable alternatives for getting these domains administered we 
   will gladly explore the possibilities.  Any volunteers?

   It was suggested (in jest, i think) that the Corporate domain be run 
   by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  It is not such a bad idea.  I would
   like to see the administration of these domains move to appropriate 
   responsible entities.  I would not push to get some organization to 
   administer a domain until there was some indication that they knew 
   what it was, though.

   Actually, while right now it may look hopeless for ever finding 
   appropriate administrations to take over the management of some of 
   these domains, i expect there will in the not too distant future be 
   several volunteers for each of these domains.

   The NIC is not a "administration" in the sense used here.  The NIC is
   the agent of both DDN and DARPA.  It would be inappropriate for there
   to be a top level NIC domain.  The NIC is acting as DDN's or DARPA's 
   agent when it registers and assigns host names.

   One can be the administrator of a domain, or be the agent of the 
   administrator of a domain without being in the domain.  For example, 
   the NIC might be NIC.DDN even though it is the administrative agent 
   for other domains as well.

8)  Second Level Domains

   100 Hosts.  Perhaps the most often voiced issue is that 100 hosts may
   not be the right criteria for being big enough to be a second level 
   domain.

   We are open for suggestions for other criteria.

   It was suggested that with this kind of criteria someone will count 
   every PC as a host.  I think we should expect that in any case.  So 
   the criteria should probably be different.  Maybe it should be in 
   dollars of computer hardware (say $5,000,000 ?).  Or, maybe it should
   be user accounts or mailboxes (say 25,000 ?).  Or, some formula 
   combining several factors?  Any suggestions?

   Try thinking of two cases: one you think should be a second level 
   domain and one you think should not.  Try to make up a decision rule 
   that separates them.  If you find some thing that works try it on 
   some other cases.  If it still works tell me about it.

   There was a suggestion to limit the operation of a name server to a 
   large organization but allow any one to be a second level domain.  
   This is just the opposite of the intent.  The requirement that a 
   second level domain be some at least some threshold size is intended 
   to it limit the number of such domains in some way.  If a much 
   smaller organization can operate a name service (reliably and 
   robustly) that is fine with me.  I encourage it.

   There was a question about hosts at the second level.  If a top level
   administration decides to it may allow hosts as second level names.  
   This is now the case in the initial ARPA domain.  This is discouraged
   in the future, but it is allowed.

   The notion that a host is just that special case of a domain which 
   has no subdomains and is a single machine still applies.  That is, a 
   host is a leaf of the domain name tree.

   An organization with a small number of hosts (or even just one) will 
   probably be able to find some second level domain administrator will 
   to take it in as a third level domain.

9)  Number of Levels

   Some feel that the current plan will result in too many levels.  I 
   think that it is not actually a problem of how many levels but how 
   long (in characters) names become.  I think user pressure will keep 
   things reasonable.

   There is some suggestion that the top level names do not add anything
   significant while making the names longer.  I think the top level 
   names are important because of their semantic neutrality.  I think it
   is important to getting some agreement on how we are going to use 
   this system, and i think it is so important to get this system into 
   service that i am willing to pay the cost of an "extra" level.

   Another concern expressed was that some organizations will create 
   many levels with essentially no content.  For example, A.B.C.D.E, 
   where B and C have no siblings.  I don't think that this will happen,
   but i am prepared to let it.

10) Name Length

   There were three types of comments on this: 1) 12 characters too 
   short, 2) 12 characters too long, and 3) 12 characters just right.

   One should note that this was said in the context of one segment of a
   domain style name (what the implementation specification calls a 
   "label").

   The implementation specification allows each label to be up to 63 
   characters long.  Anyone writing a program to implement anything 
   dealing with domain style names should plan for the possibility of 63
   character labels.

11) Aliases

   While it is possible to set up aliases in the database (using the 
   CNAME RRs), i don't think this should be used widely on a long term 
   basis.  It may be a useful feature to use for a short time (a few 
   months) when a host changes its domain style name.

   I think that many hosts will want to establish private files of 
   aliases for commonly used other hosts.  And i think that users would 
   like to have private files of commonly used other mailboxes.  Such 
   files should be easily coupled to applications programs (e.g., the 
   users mail program).

12) Names Servers

   The information a name server can supply about a name is everything 
   that is in the database.  There is no implication from the name that 
   limits the information that can be returned.  The details of the 
   query determine the information returned.  

   For example, if one looked up UDEL.CSNET.EDU one could get back 
   (depending on the details of the query) both the ARPA-Internet 32-bit
   address and the MMDF phone number.

   Please recall that name servers do not have to be one to one with 
   domain names.  That is, several domains may go together to provide 
   the robust and reliable name service.

   There was some talk about "sanctioned" name servers.  It is true that
   when a domain is set up some name servers must be registered so that 
   information about this new domain can be accessed.  These name 
   servers must have up to date information about the domain.  There can
   easily be additional name servers set up for the domain.  I don't see
   that these additional servers need be though of as second class 
   citizens in any way.  There was also some concern about keeping the 
   data consistent between these servers.  By using the data base zone 
   and master file procedures defined in the specification there should 
   be no problems with inconsistent data (except possibly very briefly 
   when the master file is updated).  

13) Database by Zones

   The name servers implement the protocol to answer questions about 
   data they hold.  The data is organized in to sections called zones.  
   A zone may conveniently correspond to a low level domain.

   For example, ISI might become a third level domain.  The information 
   about the hosts at ISI might be a zone of the database.  This zone 
   could be updated at ISI and provided to several name servers operated
   by other organizations.

   The part of the database that describes a top level domain and its 
   second level domains (but not the third and lower level domains) 
   might also be a zone.  This information might not change very often, 
   and might be distributed to many name servers.

14) Brick Wall

   I don't respond well to being shouted at.

   Try a calm and well reasoned presentation.

Summary:

I think the main point i want to make is that i want the mechanism to be
general and capable of supporting a reasonably large and appropriately 
structured naming system, and i want to start using it as soon as 
possible.  This may result in the initial structure of names and 
administrators being somewhat distorted from what we might have in an 
ideal world.  Let's get on with the experiment and evolve toward that 
ideal world.

--jon.

