POSTEL@USC-ISIF -- 11 May 1984 -- namedroppers@SRI-NIC
------------------------------------------------------

DRAFT - Domain Requirements - New Version

Hi.

Here is a significantly revised version of the "Domain Requirements" memo.
Comments are encouraged.  If you have public comments please send
them only to "NAMEDROPPERS@SRI-NIC.ARPA" -  the authors are on the list.
If you have private comments please send them to "JKREYNOLDS@USC-ISIF.ARPA".

--jon & joyce.


Network Working Group                                          J. Postel
Request for Comments: DRAFT                                  J. Reynolds
                                                                     ISI
                                                                May 1984

                          Domain Requirements


Status of this Memo

   This is a draft memo.  When the review is complete this memo will be
   issued as an RFC with the following statement:

      This memo is a policy statement on the requirements of
      establishing a new domain in the ARPA-Internet and the DARPA
      research community.  This is an official policy statement of the
      ICCB and the DARPA.

Introduction

   This memo restates and refines the requirements on establishing a
   Domain first described in RFC-881 [1].  It add considerable detail to
   that discussion, and introduces the limited set of top level domains.

The Purpose of Domains

   Domains are administrative entities.  The purpose and expected use of
   domains is to divide the name management required of a central
   administration and assign it to sub-administrations.  There are no
   geographical, topological, or technological constraints on a domain.
   The hosts in a domain need not have common hardware or software, nor
   even common protocols.  Most of the requirements and limitations on
   domains are designed to ensure responsible administration.

General Purpose Domains

   While the initial domain name "ARPA" arises from the history of the
   development of this system and environment, in the future most of the
   top level names will be very general categories like "government",
   "education", or "corporate".  The motivation is to provide an
   organization name that is free of undesirable semantics.












Postel & Reynolds                                               [Page 1]



RFC DRAFT                                                       May 1984
Domain Requirements


Initial Set of Top Level Domains

   The initial set of top level domain names is:

      ARPA =  The ARPA-Internet

      DDN  =  The DDN-Internet

      GOV  =  Government, any government related domains meeting the
              second level requirements.

      EDU  =  Education, any education related domains meeting the
              second level requirements.

      COR  =  Corporate, any corporate related domains meeting the
              second level requirements.

      PUB  =  Public, any other domains meeting the second level
              requirements.

Possible Examples of Domains

   The following examples are fictions of the authors' creation, any
   similarity to the real world is coincidental.

   The UC Domain

      It might be that a large state wide university with, say, nine
      campuses and several laboratories may want to form a domain.  Each
      campus or major off-campus laboratory might then be a subdomain,
      and within each subdomain, each department could be further
      distinguished.  This university might be a second level domain in
      the education category.

      One might see domain style names for hosts in this domain like
      these:

         LOCUS.CS.LA.UC.EDU
         CCN.OAC.LA.UC.EDU
         ERNIE.CS.CAL.UC.EDU
         A.S1.LLNL.UC.EDU
         A.LAND.LANL.UC.EDU
         NMM.LBL.CAL.UC.EDU

   The MIT Domain

      Another large university may have many hosts using a variety of


Postel & Reynolds                                               [Page 2]



RFC DRAFT                                                       May 1984
Domain Requirements


      machine types, some even using several families of protocols.
      However, the administrators at this university may see no need for
      the outside world to be aware of these internal differences.  This
      university might be a second level domain in the education
      category.

      One might see domain style names for hosts in this domain like
      these:

         APIARY-1.MIT.EDU
         BABY-BLUE.MIT.EDU
         CEZANNE.MIT.EDU
         DASH.MIT.EDU
         MULTICS.MIT.EDU
         TAC.MIT.EDU
         XX.MIT.EDU

   The CSNET Domain

      There may be a consortium of universities and industry research
      laboratories called, say, "CSNET".  This CSNET is not a network
      per se, but rather a computer mail exchange using a variety of
      protocols and network systems.  Therefore, CSNET is not a network
      in the sense of the ARPANET, or an Ethernet, or even the Internet,
      but rather a community.  Yet it does, in fact, have the key
      property needed to form a domain; it has a responsible
      administration.  This consortium might be a second level domain in
      the education category.

      One might see domain style names for hosts in this domain like
      these:

         CIC.CSNET.EDU
         EMORY.CSNET.EDU
         GATECH.CSNET.EDU
         HP-LABS.CSNET.EDU
         IBM-SJ.CSNET.EDU
         UDEL.CSNET.EDU
         UWISC.CSNET.EDU










Postel & Reynolds                                               [Page 3]



RFC DRAFT                                                       May 1984
Domain Requirements


General Requirements on a Domain

   There are several requirements that must be met to establish a
   domain.  In general, it must be responsibly managed.  There must be a
   responsible person to serve as an authoritative coordinator for
   domain related questions.  There must be a robust name service, it
   must be of at least a minimum size,  and the domain must be
   registered with the central domain administrator (the Network
   Information Center (NIC) Domain Registrar).

   Responsible Person:

      An individual must be identified who has authority for the
      administration of the names within the domain, and who seriously
      takes on the responsibility for the behavior of the hosts in the
      domain, plus their interactions with hosts outside the domain.
      This person must have some technical expertise and the authority
      within the domain to see that problems are fixed.

      If a host in a given domain somehow misbehaves in its interactions
      with hosts outside the domain (e.g., consistently violates
      protocols), the responsible person for the domain must be
      competent and available to receive reports of problems, take
      action on the reported problems, and follow through to eliminate
      the problems.

   Domain Servers:

      A robust and reliable domain name service must be provided.  One
      way of meeting this requirement is to provide at least two
      independent domain name servers for the domain.  The database can,
      of course, be the same.  The database can be prepared and copied
      to each domain name server.  But, the servers should be in
      separate machines on independent power supplies, et cetera;
      basically as physically independent as can be.  They should have
      no common point of failure.

      Some domains may find that providing a robust domain name service
      can most easily be done by cooperating with another domain where
      each domain provides an additional server for the other.

      In other situation it may be desirable for a domain to arrange for
      domain name service to be provided by a third party, perhaps on
      hosts located outside the domain.

      One of the difficult problems in operating a domain name server is
      the acquisition and maintenance of the data.  In this case, the


Postel & Reynolds                                               [Page 4]



RFC DRAFT                                                       May 1984
Domain Requirements


      data are the host names and addresses.  In some environments this
      information changes fairly rapidly and keeping up-to-date data may
      be difficult.  This is one motivation for sub-domains.  One may
      wish to create sub-domains until the rate of change of the data in
      a sub-domain domain name server database is easily managed.

      The responsible person or an identified technical assistant must
      understand in detail the procedures for operating a domain name
      server, including the management of master files and zones.

      The operation of a domain name server should not be taken on
      lightly.  There are some difficult problems in providing an
      adequate service, primarily the problems in keeping the database
      up to date, and keeping the service operating.

      The concepts and implementation details of the domain name server
      are given in RFC-882 [2] and RFC-883 [3].

   Minimum Size:

      The domain must be of at least a minimum size.  Several measures
      of size may be used in combination with making this test.
      Measures may include: (a) the number of host computers in the
      domain, (b) the number of people with primary mailboxes in the
      domain, (c) the amount of traffic that crosses the boundary of the
      domain [packets/day or mail items/week].  Specific threshold
      values for these measurements will be established before new
      domains are authorized.

      There is no requirement to form a domain because some set of hosts
      is above the minimum size.

      Top level domains must be specially authorized.  In general, they
      will only be authorized for domains expected to have over 1000
      hosts.

      The current requirement for a second level domain is that it have
      over 100 hosts.

   Registration:

      Top level domains must be specially authorized and registered with
      the NIC domain registrar.

      The administrator of a level N domain must register with the




Postel & Reynolds                                               [Page 5]



RFC DRAFT                                                       May 1984
Domain Requirements


      registrar of the level N-1 domain.  This upper level authority
      must be satisfied that the requirements are met before
      authorization for the domain is granted.

      The registration procedure involves answering specific questions
      about the prospective domain.  A prototype of what the NIC Domain
      Registrar may ask for the registration of a second level domain is
      shown below.  These questions may change from time to time.  It is
      the responsibility of domain administrators to keep this
      information current.

      The administrator of a domain is required to make sure that host
      and sub-domain names within that jurisdiction conform to the
      standard name conventions and are unique within that domain.

      If sub-domains are set up, the administrator may wish to pass
      along some of his authority and responsibility to a sub-domain
      administrator.  Even if sub-domains are established, the
      responsible person for the top-level domain is ultimately
      responsible for the whole tree of sub-domains and hosts.

         This does not mean that a domain administrator has to know the
         details of all the sub-domains and hosts to the Nth degree, but
         simply that if a problem occurs he can get it fixed by calling
         on the administrator of the sub-domain containing the problem.

Top Level Domain Requirements

   There are very few top level domains, each of these may have many
   second level domains.  Every top level domain must meet the general
   requirements on a domain specified above.

   An initial set of top level names has been identified.  Each of these
   has an administrator.

   The top level domains:

      ARPA =  The ARPA-Internet

         Administrator:  The Network Information Center
         Mailbox:        DOMAIN-REGISTRAR@SRI-NIC.ARPA

      DDN  =  The DDN-Internet

         Administrator:  The Network Information Center
         Mailbox:        DOMAIN-REGISTRAR@SRI-NIC.ARPA



Postel & Reynolds                                               [Page 6]



RFC DRAFT                                                       May 1984
Domain Requirements


      GOV  =  Government

         Administrator:  The Network Information Center
         Mailbox:        DOMAIN-REGISTRAR@SRI-NIC.ARPA

      EDU  =  Education

         Administrator:  The Network Information Center
         Mailbox:        DOMAIN-REGISTRAR@SRI-NIC.ARPA

      COR  =  Corporate

         Administrator:  The Network Information Center
         Mailbox:        DOMAIN-REGISTRAR@SRI-NIC.ARPA

      PUB  =  Public

         Administrator:  The Network Information Center
         Mailbox:        DOMAIN-REGISTRAR@SRI-NIC.ARPA

Second Level Domain Requirements

   Each top level domain may have many second level domains.  Every
   second level domain must meet the general requirements on a domain
   specified above, and be registered with a top level domain
   administrator.

Third through Nth Level Domain Requirements

   Each second level domain may have many third level domains, etc.
   Every third level domain (through Nth level domain) must meet the
   requirements set by the administrator of the immediately higher level
   domain.  Note that these may be more or less strict that the general
   requirements.

Impact on Hosts

   What is a host administrator to do about all this?  For existing
   hosts, already operating in the ARPA-Internet, the best advice is to
   sit tight.  For a new host, careful thought should be given (as
   discussed below).  Some guidance can be obtained by comparing notes
   on what other hosts with similar administrative properties have done.

   The owner of a host may decide which domain to join, and the
   administrator of a domain may decide which hosts to accept into his




Postel & Reynolds                                               [Page 7]



RFC DRAFT                                                       May 1984
Domain Requirements


   domain.  Thus the owner of a host and a domain administrator must
   come to an understanding about the host being in the domain.  This is
   the foundation of responsible administration.

      For example, a host "XYZ" at MIT might possible be considered as a
      candidate for becoming any of XYZ.ARPA, XYZ.CSNET.EDU, or
      XYZ.MIT.EDU.

         The owner of host XYZ may choose which domain to join,
         depending on which domain administrators are willing to have
         him.

   The domain is part of the host name.  Thus if USC-ISIA.ARPA changes
   its domain affiliation to DDN to become USC-ISIA.DDN, it has changed
   its name.  This means that any previous reference to USC-ISIA.ARPA
   are now out of date.  Such old references may include private host
   name to address tables, and any recorded information about mailboxes
   such as mailing lists, the headers of old messages, printed
   directories, and peoples memories.

   The experience of the DARPA community suggests that changing the name
   of a host is somewhat painful.  It is recommended that careful
   thought be given to choosing a new name for a host - which includes
   selecting its place in the domain hierarchy.

The Roles of the Network Information Center

   The NIC plays two types of roles in the administration of domains.
   First,  the NIC is the registrar of all top level domains.  Second
   the NIC is the administrator of several top level domains (and the
   registrar for second level domains in these).

   Top Level Domain Registrar

      As the registrar for top level domains the NIC is the contact
      point for investigating the possibility of establishing a new top
      level domain.

   Top Level Domain Administrator

      For the top level domains designated so far the NIC is the
      administrator of each of these domains.  This means the NIC is
      responsible for the management of these domains and the
      registration of the second level domains or hosts (if at the
      second level) in these domains.

      It may be reasonable for the administration of some of these


Postel & Reynolds                                               [Page 8]



RFC DRAFT                                                       May 1984
Domain Requirements


      domains to be taken on by other authorities in the future.  It is
      certainly not desired that the NIC be the administrator of all top
      level domains forever.

Prototypical Questions

   To establish a DOMAIN, the following information must be provided to
   the NIC Domain Registrar (DOMAIN-REGISTRAR@SRI-NIC.ARPA):

      Notes:  The key people must have computer mail mailboxes and
      NIC-Idents.  If they do not at present please remedy the situation
      at once.  A NIC-Ident may be established by contacting
      NIC@SRI-NIC.ARPA.

   1)  The name of the top level domain to join.

      For example:  EDU

   2)  The name, title, mailing address, phone number, and organization
   of the administrative head of the organization.  This is the contact
   point for administrative and policy questions about the DOMAIN.  In
   the case of a research project, this should be the Principal
   Investigator.  The online mailbox and NIC-Ident of this person should
   also be included.

      For example:

         Administrator

            Organization  USC/Information Sciences Institute
            Name          Keith Uncapher
            Title         Executive Director
            Mail Address  USC/ISI
                          4676 Admiralty Way, Suite 1001
                          Marina del Rey, CA. 90292
            Phone Number  (213) 822-1511
            Net Mailbox   Uncapher@USC-ISIB.ARPA
            NIC-Ident     KU

   3)  The name, title, mailing address, phone number, and organization
   of the technical contact.  The online mailbox and NIC-Ident of the
   technical contact should also be included.  This is the contact point
   for problems with the DOMAIN and for updating information about the
   DOMAIN.  Also, the technical contact may be responsible for hosts in
   this DOMAIN.

      For example:


Postel & Reynolds                                               [Page 9]



RFC DRAFT                                                       May 1984
Domain Requirements


         Technical Contact

            Organization  USC/Information Sciences Institute
            Name          Craig Milo Rogers
            Title         Researcher
            Mail Address  USC/ISI
                          4676 Admiralty Way, Suite 1001
                          Marina del Rey, CA. 90292
            Phone Number  (213) 822-1511
            Net Mailbox   Rogers@USC-ISIB.ARPA
            NIC-Ident     CMR

   4)  The name of the DOMAIN (up to 12 characters).  This is the name
   that will be used in tables and lists associating the DOMAIN and the
   domain name server addresses.  [While technically domain names can be
   quite long (programmers beware), shorter names are easier for people
   to cope with.]

      For example:  ALPHA-BETA

   5)  A description of the servers that provides the domain name
   service for translating name to address for hosts in this DOMAIN, and
   the date they will be operational.

      A good way to answer this question is to say "Our server is
      supplied by person or company X and does whatever their standard
      issue server does".

         For example:  Our server is a copy of the server operated by
         the NIC, and will be installed and made operational on
         1-June-84.

   6)  A description of the server machines, including:

      (a) hardware and software (using keywords from the Assigned
      Numbers)

      (b) addresses (what host on what net for each connected net)

      For example:

         (a) hardware and software

            VAX-11/750  and  UNIX,    or
            IBM-PC      and  MS-DOS,  or
            DEC-1090    and  TOPS-20



Postel & Reynolds                                              [Page 10]



RFC DRAFT                                                       May 1984
Domain Requirements


         (b) address

            10.9.0.193 on ARPANET

   7)  An estimate of the number of hosts that will be in the DOMAIN

      (a) initially,
      (b) within one year,
      (c) two years, and
      (d) five years.

      For example:

         (a) initially  =   25
         (b) one year   =   50
         (c) two years  =  100
         (d) five years =  500

Acknowledgment

   We would like to thank the many people who contributed to this memo,
   including the participants in the Namedroppers Group, the ICCB, the
   PCCB, and especially the staff of the Network Information Center,
   particularly J. Feinler and K. Harrenstien.

References

   [1]  Postel, J., "The Domain Names Plan and Schedule", RFC-881, USC
        Information Sciences Institute, November 1983.

   [2]  Mockapetris, P., "Domain Names - Concepts and Facilities",
        RFC-882, USC Information Sciences Institute, November 1983.

   [3]  Mockapetris, P., "Domain Names - Implementation and
        Specification", RFC-883, USC Information Sciences Institute,
        November 1983.

   [4]  Postel, J., "Domain Name System Implementation Schedule",
        RFC-897, USC Information Sciences Institute, February 1984.










Postel & Reynolds                                              [Page 11]


