IAB -- 15 March 1996 -- IETF
----------------------------

[This text will be included in the minutes of the open
IAB meeting during the LA IETF.]

IAB CONCLUSIONS ON SMI APPEAL BY DAVID PERKINS
----------------------------------------------

David Perkins <dperkins@scruznet.com> has appealed to the IAB as follows:

"This appeal asks the IAB to review the decision of the IESG to
elevate RFCs 1902, 1903, and 1904 to DRAFT level.

"This appeal asks that these specifications have their status
level changed back to PROPOSED until ALL THE REQUIREMENTS as
specified in RFC 1602 (and clarified in the poised WG draft)
are met."

1. The IAB decided to accept this appeal although a close
reading of RFC 1602 shows that there is no provision for
appealing IESG decisions.

RECOMMENDATION 1: The IAB recommends that the
replacement for RFC 1602 should clarify and broaden
the possible grounds for appeal, as already covered in the
relevant poised'95 WG draft.

The IAB notes that the RFCs were published despite an appeal
being under way, there being no provision for delaying publication
in RFC 1602. The IAB believes this was correct, in the interests
of timeliness.

2. The appeal was notified to the IAB on January 10, 1996 and to the
IETF list on January 23. On January 30 the IAB requested email
submissions by February 10, and received some 25 messages. The
appeal was discussed in the IAB teleconference on February 13,
in the IAB's face-to-face meeting at the LA IETF, and
in the Open IAB meeting at the LA IETF where final verbal
submissions were made by David Perkins, Dierdre Kostick and others.

3. One issue in the appeal is whether the interoperability
requirement of the IETF standards process is limited to
interoperability of different implementations "over the wire"
or whether its scope is wider. The IAB has concluded that
the general understanding of "interoperability" in the IETF
is limited to "over the wire" but this may be too narrow
in some cases, such as the present one.

RECOMMENDATION 2: The IAB recommends that the
replacement for RFC 1602 should clarify the meaning
of "interoperable implementations", as already
covered in the relevant poised'95 WG draft.

4. A related issue is that RFC 1602 does not make clear
who is responsible for documenting demonstrations of
interoperability, and who is reponsible for making this
documentation available to the community.

RECOMMENDATION 3: The IAB recommends that the
relevant WG chair should be responsible for
documenting interoperability demonstrations, and
for providing this information to the IESG via the
Area Director. The IETF Secretariat should be responsible
for making this material available to the community.
The replacement for RFC 1602 should specify these
responsibilities.

5. A technical issue in the appeal is whether the SNMP
usage of ASN.1 is viewed as usage of an SNMP "dialect" of
ASN.1 or strict formal usage of one of the formal
standard versions of ASN.1. In the former case,
conformance requirements can be treated more loosely
than in the latter. The IAB has concluded that
the general understanding in the IETF is that SNMP uses
a dialect of ASN.1-1988 and does not conform strictly to
either ASN.1-1988 or ASN.1-1994. However the dialect of
ASN.1-1988 used is not properly documented.

RECOMMENDATION 4: The IAB recommends that the NM AD
charters a short-lived WG (or a BOF, if that is
sufficient) to document this ASN.1 dialect.

6. D. Perkins appears to claim that

(a) the interoperability requirement extends to ASN.1
compilers

(b) that ASN.1 discrepancies in the SMI definitions
lead to non-interoperability

(c) that the IESG has ignored this in its decision to
approve RFC 1902, 1903 and 1904 as Draft Standard

7. Other comments received by the IAB claim that

(a) there is massive demonstrated interoperability
between SNMP agents and managers using MIBs based
on the incriminated ASN.1

(b) that an informal "IETF" interpretation of ASN.1
is appropriate

(c) that the SMI inconsistencies pointed out by D. Perkins
have no practical importance

(d) that these issues have been extensively discussed
in the SNMPv2 WG where D. Perkins was clearly
in the minority.

8. The IAB notes that in its "protocol action" referring to
the SMI documents, the IESG noted that some editorial changes
are needed prior to full Standard status. However we also
note that the messages from the WG Chair to the NM AD,
that asked for the documents to be progressed, did not
specifically address the interoperability issue. It seems
to have been assumed that since the interoperability of SNMPv2
managers and agents was common knowledge, that was
sufficient. Indeed, as noted above, RFC 1602 does not specify
who should be responsible for documenting interoperability.

9. The IAB concludes that

- regardless of which interpretation of interoperability
is used, in a formal sense the interoperability
requirements of RFC 1602 were not documented in
this case.

- the main reason for this is that RFC 1602 does not
either precisely define interoperability, nor
specify who is responsible for documenting it.
Our recommendations 2 and 3 above address this.

- the technical ambiguity arises from the history
of ASN.1, and our recommendation 4 above addresses
this.

- we see no advantage to the community in reversing
the IESG decision to advance the documents to
Draft Standard, but they must not be further advanced
until recommendation 4 has been followed and
until appropriate interoperability documentation
has been provided to the IESG and the community.

