NomCom Chair -- 04 February 1997 -- IETF-Announce
-------------------------------------------------

IETF Nominations Committee Report

The  IETF  Nominations  Committee  has  now  completed its work in
selecting candidates for the positions in the IESG and IAB whose term
expires  at  the April 1997 IETF meeting.

The candidates have been selected following extensive consultation
regarding the consensus view of the IETF community's perceptions of the
qualifications appropriate  for  these positions, and the Nominations
Committee has adhered strictly to the process described in the document
RFC  2027  throughout  its schedule.

The  Nominations  Committee's  activities  commenced in mid-October
1996, so this concluding report is being passed to the IETF somewhat
earlier than has been the case in previous years. We were aware that
in  the  course  of  the committee's  work  many  highly  qualified
individuals, and their employers, were willing to make  an  open
commitment  of  the  individuals'  time  and energies  to  levels in
excess of 1 - 2 working days per week for a two year period. We felt
that we could not request the many individuals  involved  to hold
open  this  generous  commitment for more than a few weeks, so we have
worked diligently to bring the process through to this stage within a
timely fashion, to ensure that we did not abuse their generosity any
further  than was strictly necessary.

Four  IESG  positions  are  to  be filled by the IETF Nominations
process in 1997. These positions are Transport, Internet, Applications
and  Operations and Management.

The  following  individuals  have  been  selected  as  candidates  for
these positions, and their candidature confirmed by the IAB:

Applications Co-Area Director

Harald T. Alvestrand  Harald.T.Alvestrand@uninett.no

  Harald  is  the  incumbent  in this position and the committee has noted a
  very high level of confidence in Harald's carriage of this position within
  the IETF.

  Harald is employed at UNINETT, the  Norwegian  academic  network,  in  the
  position  of  "services  manager".  This  entails  oversight  over UNINETT
  application-level services, and initiation  and  monitoring  of  UNINETT's
  development  activities  in the applications area. Harald is also actively
  in TERENA activities in addition to his IETF activities. He high level  of
  acitivity in the IETF includes autorship of 7 curently active drafts and 7
  RFCs.  UNINETT  management  has committed to continue to support Harald in
  his IESG role.


Internet Co-Area Director

Thomas Narten narten@raleigh.ibm.com

  Thomas  brings a high level of technical depth and breadth to the
  Area and to the IESG. Thomas has a very high level of understanding
  of the Internet Area, and also has a strong  working  knowledge  of
  routing  end  to  end transport  and security. The committee is of
  the view that this will be of assistance on the IESG in understanding
  how the activities of various  WGs impact each other.

  Thomas  currently  is  employed  by IBM, TCP/IP Technologies, and
  prior to this was an Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Computer
  Science Department at Duke University. He has authored RFCs 1970 and
  1971 as well as numerous research publications.


Operations and Management Co-Area Director

John Curran  jcurran@bbnplanet.com

  John  is  a  well respected IETF member, currently Co-chair of the
  Uniform Resource Name WG (APP), a participant in the Application Area
  Directorate, a past participant in the Ops Area Directorate and the
  IPNG  Directorate.  He was also the 1995 IETF NomCom Chair.

  He  is  the  Chief  Technical  Officer, BBN Planet, and brings a
  wealth of direct operational experience to the IETF. He has a
  thorough understanding of the operational and management
  requirements  posed  by  complex  large scale  networks,  and  is
  highly  respected wthin the Internet operations community.

Transport Co-Area Director

Scott Bradner  sob@harvard.edu

  Scott  is  also  a  well  respected  IETF  member,  and  has served
  as the Operations Area Director  for  the  past  5  years.  He  has
  authored  an extensive number of RFCs.

  Scott  has been selected as the candidate for the Transport Area
  following much consultation within the IETF community over the status
  of  this  Area and  its  direction. The Nominations Committee did
  consider very carefully the merits of continuing with a purely
  transport-oriented direction,  with an admitted high component of
  activity which borders of research activity, and  weighed  this
  against the introduction of operational expertise into the Area at
  the Area Director level. The  committee  formed  the  distinct
  impression  from  their  consultation that the latter course of
  action, of the nomination of an indivdual with extensive operational
  expertise,  was necessary  at  this point in time, although some
  potential difficulties in undertaking this were noted. Scott is
  perhaps the  most  experienced  Area Director  the  IETF  has,  and
  certainly acknowledged to be a very capable Area manager as well as a
  contributor to the IETF, and  there  is  a  very high  level  of
  confidence  in  Scott  to work with the Transport Co-Area Director
  (who was appointed relatively recently) and  the  Transport  Area
  members  to  provide  a  level of leadership to the Area's activites
  which will  assist  in  harmonising  Internet  operational
  considerations  with technology development.


Six IAB positions are to be filled by the IETF Nominations process in 1997.

The  following  individuals  have  been  selected  by  the  IETF Nominations
Committee as candidates for these positions, and the  candidature  confirmed
by the ISOC Board of Trustees:

Steve Deering  deering@parc.xerox.com

  For  the  past  five  years,  Steve  has  been employed as a Member
  of the Research Staff at Xerox PARC, engaged in  research  on
  advanced  internet technologies,   including   multicast   routing,
  mobile  internetworking, scalable addressing, and support  for
  multimedia  applications  over  the Internet.  Steve has recently
  joined the Gigabit Switching Group at Cisco, where he is continuing
  his involvement in internet protocol  research  and contributing  to
  the  design  of  very  high  speed  routers.  Steve  has co-chaired a
  significant number of IETF Working Groups in areas  of  Ipv6,
  routing,  multicast  and  mobile  IP during his extensive involvement
  with IETF activities.

Tony Hain  tonyhain@microsoft.com

  Tony  Hain  has  had  extensive  operational  experience  as the
  Associate Manager at ESNET in the period 1990 - 1995. Tony is
  currently employed  at Microsoft in the position of Internet
  Architect MSN.

  Tony  has  been  an  active member of various Internet Operational
  groups, including the FEPG, the  IEPG  and  NANOG,  and  has  also
  had  extensive involvement  at  the  IETF,  focussing  on  feedback
  about the operational impact of design suggestions and early
  implementation  testing.  In  this role  Tony  is  currently
  co-chairing  the  IPv6 transition tools working group.

Erik Huizer  Erik.Huizer@sec.nl

  Erik Huizer is Managing Director of the SURFnet Expertise Center.
  Erik has perviously  worked  as  a network development project
  manager with SURFnet bv, the company that operates the Academic and
  Research  network  in  The Netherlands. He manages various national
  and international projects on the Internet, security, E-mail,
  Information services and Directory services.

  Erik  has  been  a member of the RARE (now Terena) Technical
  Committee for three years. He is an active IETF member and  has
  chaired  and  acted  as editor  for  a  number  of  IETF Working
  Groups. He has also been the Area Director for the Applications Area
  of the Internet Engineering Task Force, and as such a member of  the
  Internet  Engineering  Steering  Group  from 1990-1995. He is
  currently a member of the Internet Architecture Board.

Cyndi Jung  cmj@3Com.com

  Cyndi  is  the  protocol  architect  and  software development
  manager for 3Com's router products. Cyndi has  had  extensive
  experience  in  routing architectures  from  the  perspective  of
  vendor  implementation for many years.

  She has been involved in the IETF routing working groups and also
  in  the IPv6  activity  domain, most recently working on technical
  aspects of IPv6 transition.

Robert Moskowitz  rgm3@chrysler.com

  Robert  is  employed  by  the  Chrysler  Corporation  in  Internet
  related activities, including email architecture, Intranet
  developments  and  EDI over  TCP, and is well aware of the corporate
  requirements with respect to the directions of Internet technologies.
  He is also a  member  of  the  US Federal  Networking Council
  Advisory Committee (appointed April 96 for a 3 year term), a body
  which advises  the  US  federal  research  networks  on policy
  issues. He is the co-chair of the FNCAC security committee.

  Robert  is  currently a member of the Internet Architecture Board,
  and has been active in the IETF, particularly within the Applications
  Directorate, for many years.

Charlie Perkins  charliep@watson.ibm.com

  Charlie  works  at  the  IBM T. J. Watson Research Center. Charlie
  has had extensive involvement in the development of various Internet
  technologies, and is principally known for  his  efforts  within
  the  MobileIP  Working Group. He has also been involved with Dynamic
  Host Configuration, IPV6 and Service  Location  protocol development
  work. He is also serving on the US National Research Council
  committee and a US Cross-Industry  Working  Team (XIWT) group


It  has been a challenging task for the committee, and I'd like to take
this opportunity to thank the committee members for their diligence in
this work, and also to thank all other members of the IETF who
participated in the 1997 Nominations process in various capacities.

Thanks,

  Geoff Huston

for IETF Nominations Committee:

  Guy Almes
  Jim Bound
  Matt Crawford
  Phill Gross
  Bob Hinden
  Dorian Kim
  Bill Manning
  Marshall Rose
  Mike StJohns
  Glen Zorn
  Geoff Huston      (chair)
  Joyce Reynolds    (IESG liaison)
  Radia Perlman     (IAB liaison)
  Christian Huitema (ISOC liaison)

