IAB Chair -- 27 May 1997 -- IETF-Announce
-----------------------------------------

Call for POC Nominations

IETF,

The IAB has been requested to appoint two people to the Policy
Oversight Committee (POC) established under the recently signed
DNS Memorandum of Understanding. For full details please
see http://www.iahc.org/gTLD-MoU.html

Although there is continued discussion at the political level
about these matters, the IAB has decided to proceed with these
appointments to avoid loss of time if and when the POC starts up.

One person is to be appointed for one year and a second person
for three years, to allow for rolling replacements in future.
The IAB has decided to appoint persons with strong technical
expertise in DNS and Internet technology and with a strong claim
to have an international outlook. The IAB has further decided
to make an open call for nominations from the IETF community.

Procedure:

1. This message is the call for nominations, which should be sent
to  pocnom@iab.org  by the closing date of 30 June 1997.

** DO NOT SEND NOMINATIONS AS A REPLY TO THIS MESSAGE; SEND THEM
   TO pocnom@iab.org **

2. Each nomination must give the name, affiliation, email address
and phone number of the nominee, plus a brief statement (maximum
10 lines) about the nominee's technical and international credentials.

3. Self-nominations are allowed.

4. The IAB will verify each nominee's willingness to serve for one
or three years.

5. The list of willing nominees will be published by the IAB shortly
after the closing date. Confidential comments from the community will
be solicited. The IAB will then make its two appointments
and announce them within one month.

6. Apart from the above, the IAB will be guided in its deliberations
by the procedures defined in RFC 2027.

7. Nominees must accept that a recall procedure, analagous to that
defined in RFC 2027, may be invoked at any time during their terms.

Note - for future years, the IAB is considering delegating
this task to the normal IETF Nominating and Recall Committee
established under RFC 2027. Comments on this idea are welcome.

  Brian Carpenter (IAB Chair)           brian@hursley.ibm.com

