NomCom Chair -- 20 February 1998 -- IETF-Announce
-------------------------------------------------

IESG '98

It gives me great pleasure to announce that the following slate of Nominees 
recommended by this years Nominations Committee have been confirmed by the IAB 
and will begin (or continue) their terms effective with the LA IETF.  
Cngratulations!

Mike StJohns, Chair
Nomcom '98


IETF Chair - Fred Baker, Cisco, 3 year term.
Security Co-AD, Jeff Schiller, MIT, 3 year term.
Security Co-AD, Marcus Leech, NorTel
Routing AD, Rob Coltun, FORE
User Services AD, April Marine, CSC/NASA
Transport Co-AD, Vern Paxson, LBL
Applications Co-AD, Keith Moore, UTenn
O&M Co-AD, Mike O'Dell, UUNET
Internet Co-AD, Jeff Burgan, @Home


Fred Baker, Cisco

Fred is the current chair of the IESG/IETF and has served in that position
for the last 2 years.    He is a Senior Software Engineer for Cisco.  Fred
Baker has worked in the telecommunications industry since 1978, building
statistical multiplexors, terminal servers, bridges, and routers.  At Cisco
Systems, his primary interest area is the management of congestion for best
effort and real time traffic. In addition to product development, as a
Cisco Fellow, he advises senior management of industry directions and
appropriate corporate strategies. His principal standards contributions
have been to the IETF, but he has contributed to ITU's H.323, and to such
industry consortia as WINSOCK II and the ATM Forum. In the IETF, he has
contributed to Network Management, Routing, PPP and Frame Relay, the
Integrated Services architecture, and the RSVP signaling protocol. 


Jeff Schiller, MIT

Jeff is the current AD of the Security Area and has served in that position
for the last 4 years.  He is the manager of Systems and Operations for
MIT's network system. Jeff is an internationally known security expert
having gotten his start at MIT with such projects as Multics and Kerberos.
Over the years he has been involved in various privacy and security
activities including the early PGP efforts. He was one of the early members
and contributors to the IETF. He regularly teaches network security at the
Interop conferences.   He was also a founding member of NearNet.


Marcus Leech, NT

Marcus Leech has been a Security Architect at Nortel for the past seven
years.  He has been involved with the IETF for the past 2 years working on
applications based security as well as the related public key
architectures.  He is the chair of the Authenticated Firewall Traversal
working group, and the author/editor of  2 RFCs on SOCKS.  He was a
contributor at the recent  IAB  workshop on security.


Rob Coltun, Fore

Rob is employed by Fore working on ATM related switching and routing. Rob
has been involved with the IETF since its early days, first as a staff
member at MITRE supporting the Defense Data Network, later at UMaryland,
Rainbow Bridge and Fore.  Over the years he has been involved in
implementing and testing various routing protocols including one of the
first Unix OSPF implementations.  He substitute chairs the OSPF working
group.   He has implemented versions of RIP v1 & v2, IGMP v1, IDRP, BGP
(with RPSL policy), and MOSPF and has architected PNNI, DVMRP and PIM-SM
implementations.  He is the co-author of the OSPF over IPv6 drafts, and has
authored the OSPF MIB and OSPF NSA RFCs and has authored other drafts
related to routing and switching


April Marine, CSC/NASA

April Marine is currently the lead for the NASA Network Information Center,
part of the NASA Integrated Services Network (NISN).  The NASA NIC
concentrates on information infrastructure issues and collaborates to
improve the user's interface to NASA's online information.  She is also
manager of the GLOBE Help Desk, a first-level user support service that
serves teachers involved in the Global Learning and Observations to Benefit
the Environment (GLOBE) Program, an international "K-12" environmental
studies program that relies heavily on the Internet.  She has worked for
Sterling Software at NASA Ames Research Center for the past five years;
previously she worked for several years at the SRI Network Information
Center.  She is the co-author of several RFCs dealing with a variety of
topics relevant to network users and user support organizations.


Vern Paxson, LBL

Vern Paxson is a staff scientist with the Lawrence Berkeley National
Laboratory's Network Research Group.  He received his M.S. and Ph.D.
degrees from the University of California, Berkeley. His research primarily
concerns Internet measurement, and has given talks and taught tutorials at
SIGCOMM, NANOG, IETF and other meetings.  He also does research on building
network intrusion detection systems.  He co-chairs IETF working groups on
IP Performance Metrics and TCP Implementation, and is a member of the IETF
Transport Area directorate.   He's been the recipient of awards for SIGCOMM
and USENIX papers; a co-recipient of two USENIX lifetime achievement
awards, for contributions to BSD Unix and the Software Tools project; and
won best-of-show in the 1992 International Obfuscated C Code Contest.  


Keith Moore, UTenn

Keith Moore has been active in IETF since early 1991.  He is currently
Co-AD for Applications.  He has been  active in several working groups
dealing with electronic mail and  the world wide web.  He has authored or
co-authored several RFCs,  including portions of MIME, SMTP extensions, and
delivery status notifications.  He served as chair of the DRUMS working
group.  He is currently employed as a Research Associate  at the University
of Tennessee, where his work focuses on improving accessibility of Internet
information resources through replication and name resolution; and in
general on scalable distributed systems.


Mike O'Dell, UUNET

Mike is currently  the Co-AD for the O&M Area and has held that position
for 2 years. Mike is a Vice President at UUNET, a major ISP. Prior to
joining UUNET Technologies, Mr. O'Dell was a Senior Member of Technical
Staff at Bellcore (Morristown, NJ) where he worked on distributed systems,
a major OSS re-engineering effort, and  served as chief engineer for an
"RBOC of the Future" project.  Before Bellcore, he was Chief Computer
Scientist and Director of Operating Systems Development for Prisma
Computers.   While at the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory where he was
"ARPAnet IMP Liaison" for LBL's ARPAnet connection, he built his first
TCP/IP network circa 1982 . He was a contributor to very early Berkeley
UNIX network implementations and installed the first local area network at
LBL using prototype MIT/Proteon token-ring  hardware. His research studies
of real-world behavior of that network produced an award-winning paper
presented at the IEEE Network Symposium.    Mr. O'Dell received  his BS and
MS degrees in Computer Science from the University of Oklahoma in 1976 and
1980, respectively. 

Jeff Burgan, @Home Network

Jeff is currently the Co-AD for the Internet Area and has held that
position for 2 years.  He  manages the Backbone Engineering Group at @Home
Network where he's responsible for the overall design and architecture for
the backbone network. Previous jobs include Bay Networks for nearly two
years where  he formed and managed the software engineering group
responsible for the software base specific to ISP use of Bay equipment, and
 six years at the NASA Ames Research Center where he was responsible for
the management of the NASA Science Internet network.  He has  been an
active member of the IETF since 1989 working in the areas of routing
protocols and network operations.  Jeff graduated with a B.S. in Computer
Science from the University of Maryland. 


