IESG -- 15 September 1998 -- IETF-Announce
------------------------------------------

Protocol Action: IETF Working Group Guidelines and Procedures to BCP


The IESG has approved the Internet-Draft IETF Working Group Guidelines
and Procedures <draft-ietf-poisson-wg-guide-04.txt> as a BCP.  This
document is the product of the Process for Organization of Internet
StandardS ONgoing Working Group. The IESG contact person is Fred
Baker.


Technical Summary

   The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) has responsibility for
   developing and reviewing specifications intended as Internet
   Standards. IETF activities are organized into working groups (WGs).
   This document describes the guidelines and procedures for formation
   and operation of IETF working groups. It also describes the formal
   relationship between IETF participants WG and the Internet
   Engineering Steering Group (IESG) and the basic duties of IETF
   participants, including WG Chairs, WG participants, and IETF Area
   Directors.

Working Group Summary

   The working group process was, as always, involved and heavily
   discussed, but on few points was there major disagreement. This
   document essentially tells us how most IETF working groups work
   today.

Document Quality

   The specification was edited by Scott Bradner and reviewed by Fred
   Baker, IETF Chair.

Note to RFC Editor: Please replace Item #3 in Section 2.2 with the
following clarifying text:

  3. The location of the mailing list archive. A message archive
     MUST be maintained in a public place which can be accessed via FTP
     or via the web.

     As a service to the community, the IETF Secretariat operates a
     mailing list archive for working group mailing lists. In order to
     take advantage of this service, working group mailing lists MUST
     include the address "wg_acronym-archive@lists.ietf.org" (where
     "wg_acronym" is the working group acronym) in the mailing list in
     order that a copy of all mailing list messages be recorded in the
     Secretariat's archive. Those archives are located at
     ftp://ftp.ietf.org/ietf-mail-archive.  For robustness, WGs SHOULD
     maintain an additional archive separate from that maintained by
     the Secretariat.

