Tim Berners-Lee -- 5 April 1993 -- IETF-Announce
------------------------------------------------

                       World Wide Web (WWW) BOF Minutes
                        Chaired by : Tim Berners-Lee
                           (timbl@nxoc01.cern.ch)


This is a summary of the discussion at the WWW BOF at the 26th IETF.

     Status

            Tim Berners-Lee mentioned a few recent
            developments:

                  + NCSA's "Mosaic" WWW client for  X11
                    agreed by the meeting to be the best
                    information access tool to date.  This
                    is at an advanced beta state (version
                    0.12).  FTP pickup rate for this product
                    now excedes that for NCSA telnet.

                  + A Windows client for MS-DOS machines
                    exists, the equivalent of XMosaic but
                    for PCs.  It is user configurable and
                    looks good.  A problem with release is
                    that a runtime licence is needed for the
                    TCP stack used (Distinct).

                  + The growth rate of access to the CERN
                    server has continued to double every
                    four months for the last two years with
                    no sign of tapering off.

     Man pages on the web

          Steve Romig of Ohio State was congratulated on
          his server server for unix manual pages.  This is
          a good example of an automatic server (a perl
          script in this case) which provides a powerful
          data access.  Steve agreed to make his tools
          available on the web.

     Web Agenda

          There was a discussion of things which should be
          done to make it easier for the web to spread.
          These include:

                  + Better packaging of CERN software, in
                    particular the server: simpler
                    installation, irrelevant file hiding,
                    etc.

                  + Licencising of CERN software:  There was
                    deep concern expressed that investment
                    by others in WWW related projects would
                    be jeopardized later by CERN's licencing
                    conditions, in the way that the
                    University of Minnesota have pulled the
                    rug out from under the Gopher project.
                    The General Public (Gnu-style) licence
                    was not so acceptable as pure public
                    domain code.  The meeting was quite
                    intent that this be solved very quickly.

                  + A better vt100 full-screen browser is
                    needed for a large dial-up user base.

          NCSA are likely to bring out a public domain
          very simple to install server, as a partial
          solution to the first two issues issues.

          There was a proposal to create a small group  to
          implement the vt100 client, which formed and  aims
          to implement the product for public release.
          vt100 client

          [Note: Minutes after the BOF we received an
          announcement of the "Lynx" 2.0 beta release by Lou
          Montulli.  This may solve the problem or at least
          provide a base.  Lynx is a vt100 full screen
          hypertext WWW client.  Check it out by telnetting
          to ukanaix.cc.ukans.edu and logging in as www.
          Source and binaries are available by anon FTP from
          acs220.cc.ukans.edu]

     Standards

          The three standards important for WWW at this
          stage are:

          The Universal Resource Locators spec defines the
          addressing syntax used by WWW.  This is to be
          released immediately as an Internet Draft for the
          standards track.

          The Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) specification defines
          the transport format for menus, hypertext and general online
          documentation.  This must be specified at RFC standards
          track level in order to be submitted as a MIME content-
          type.  This in turn is necessary as HTTP uses MIME
          format for returned multimedia messages, and we
          want it to stay MIME-compliant.  HTML will
          therefore be released as an Internet Draft as soon
          as possible.

          HTTP is the access protocol used by WWW servers.
          An extended (back-compatible) version is in use
          in the 2.0 and above CERN software.  This is quite
          open to extension and so any comment on the
          protocol should be discussed on the www-talk list.

          It was agreed to put these documents through the
          IIIR working group whose chairman, Chris Weider, has
          agreed to oversee their passage.  The BOF will
          not, therefore, meet again or propose a WWW working
          group.

     Mailing lists and newsgroup

            To join the technical mailing list, send a mail
            message to the address

                    www-talk-request@info.cern.ch

          for human attention.  There is a newsgroup
          currently being formed.  Its name is
          comp.infosystems.www.  To vote on its creation,
          please mail either

                    www-yes@msen.com
            or
                    www-no@msen.com

          depending whether you wish the group to be
          formed or not.


